---
url: https://docs.blender.org/api/current/info_quickstart.html
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T14:17:28.355548
title: Quickstart¶
---

# Quickstart¶

This API is generally stable but some areas are still being extended and
improved.

Blender Python API features:

  * Edit any data the user interface can (Scenes, Meshes, Particles etc.).

  * Modify user preferences, keymaps and themes.

  * Run tools with own settings.

  * Create user interface elements such as menus, headers and panels.

  * Create new tools.

  * Create interactive tools.

  * Create new rendering engines that integrate with Blender.

  * Subscribe to changes to data and it’s properties.

  * Define new settings in existing Blender data.

  * Draw in the 3D Viewport using Python.

(Still) missing features:

  * Create new space types.

  * Assign custom properties to every type.

## Before Starting¶

This document is intended to familiarize you with Blender Python API but not
to fully cover each topic.

A quick list of helpful things to know before starting:

  * Enable [Developer Extra](https://docs.blender.org/manual/en/dev/editors/preferences/interface.html#bpy-types-preferencesview-show-developer-ui "\(in Blender 5.0 Manual v5.0\)") and [Python Tooltips](https://docs.blender.org/manual/en/dev/editors/preferences/interface.html#bpy-types-preferencesview-show-tooltips-python "\(in Blender 5.0 Manual v5.0\)").

  * The [Python Console](https://docs.blender.org/manual/en/dev/editors/python_console.html#bpy-types-spaceconsole "\(in Blender 5.0 Manual v5.0\)") is great for testing one-liners; it has autocompletion so you can inspect the API quickly.

  * Button tooltips show Python attributes and operator names (when enabled see above).

  * The context menu of buttons directly links to this API documentation (when enabled see above).

  * Many python examples can be found in the text editor’s template menu.

  * To examine further scripts distributed with Blender, see:

    * `scripts/startup/bl_ui` for the user interface.

    * `scripts/startup/bl_operators` for operators.

Exact location depends on platform, see: [directory layout
docs](https://docs.blender.org/manual/en/dev/advanced/blender_directory_layout.html#blender-
directory-layout "\(in Blender 5.0 Manual v5.0\)").

### Running Scripts¶

The two most common ways to execute Python scripts are using the built-in text
editor or entering commands in the Python console. Both the _Text Editor_ and
_Python Console_ are space types you can select from the header. Rather than
manually configuring your spaces for Python development, you can use the
_Scripting_ workspace accessible from the Topbar tabs.

From the text editor you can open `.py` files or paste them from the
clipboard, then test using _Run Script_. The Python Console is typically used
for typing in snippets and for testing to get immediate feedback, but can also
have entire scripts pasted into it. Scripts can also run from the command line
with Blender but to learn scripting in Blender this isn’t essential.

## Key Concepts¶

### Data Access¶

#### Accessing Data-Blocks¶

You can access Blender’s data with the Python API in the same way as the
animation system or user interface; this implies that any setting that can be
changed via a button can also be changed with Python. Accessing data from the
currently loaded blend-file is done with the module
[`bpy.data`](bpy.data.html#module-bpy.data "bpy.data"). It gives access to
library data, for example:

    
    
    >>> bpy.data.objects
    <bpy_collection[3], BlendDataObjects>
    
    
    
    >>> bpy.data.scenes
    <bpy_collection[1], BlendDataScenes>
    
    
    
    >>> bpy.data.materials
    <bpy_collection[1], BlendDataMaterials>
    

#### Accessing Collections¶

You will notice that an index as well as a string can be used to access
members of the collection. Unlike Python dictionaries, both methods are
available; however, the index of a member may change while running Blender.

    
    
    >>> list(bpy.data.objects)
    [bpy.data.objects["Cube"], bpy.data.objects["Plane"]]
    
    
    
    >>> bpy.data.objects['Cube']
    bpy.data.objects["Cube"]
    
    
    
    >>> bpy.data.objects[0]
    bpy.data.objects["Cube"]
    

#### Accessing Attributes¶

Once you have a data-block, such as a material, object, collection, etc., its
attributes can be accessed much like you would change a setting using the
graphical interface. In fact, the tooltip for each button also displays the
Python attribute which can help in finding what settings to change in a
script.

    
    
    >>> bpy.data.objects[0].name
    'Camera'
    
    
    
    >>> bpy.data.scenes["Scene"]
    bpy.data.scenes['Scene']
    
    
    
    >>> bpy.data.materials.new("MyMaterial")
    bpy.data.materials['MyMaterial']
    

For testing what data to access it’s useful to use the Python Console, which
is its own space type. This supports auto-complete, giving you a fast way to
explore the data in your file.

Example of a data path that can be quickly found via the console:

    
    
    >>> bpy.data.scenes[0].render.resolution_percentage
    100
    >>> bpy.data.scenes[0].objects["Torus"].data.vertices[0].co.x
    1.0
    

#### Data Creation/Removal¶

When you are familiar with other Python APIs you may be surprised that new
data-blocks in the bpy API cannot be created by calling the class:

    
    
    >>> bpy.types.Mesh()
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "<blender_console>", line 1, in <module>
    TypeError: bpy_struct.__new__(type): expected a single argument
    

This is an intentional part of the API design. The Blender Python API can’t
create Blender data that exists outside the main Blender database (accessed
through [`bpy.data`](bpy.data.html#module-bpy.data "bpy.data")), because this
data is managed by Blender (save, load, undo, append, etc).

Data is added and removed via methods on the collections in
[`bpy.data`](bpy.data.html#module-bpy.data "bpy.data"), e.g:

    
    
    >>> mesh = bpy.data.meshes.new(name="MyMesh")
    >>> print(mesh)
    <bpy_struct, Mesh("MyMesh.001")>
    
    
    
    >>> bpy.data.meshes.remove(mesh)
    

#### Custom Properties¶

Python can access properties on any data-block that has an ID (data that can
be linked in and accessed from [`bpy.data`](bpy.data.html#module-bpy.data
"bpy.data")). When assigning a property, you can pick your own names, these
will be created when needed or overwritten if they already exist.

This data is saved with the blend-file and copied with objects, for example:

    
    
    bpy.context.object["MyOwnProperty"] = 42
    
    if "SomeProp" in bpy.context.object:
        print("Property found")
    
    # Use the get function like a Python dictionary
    # which can have a fallback value.
    value = bpy.data.scenes["Scene"].get("test_prop", "fallback value")
    
    # Dictionaries can be assigned as long as they only use basic types.
    collection = bpy.data.collections.new("MyTestCollection")
    collection["MySettings"] = {"foo": 10, "bar": "spam", "baz": {}}
    
    del collection["MySettings"]
    

Note that these properties can only be assigned basic Python types:

  * int, float, string

  * array of ints or floats

  * dictionary (only string keys are supported, values must be basic types too)

These properties are valid outside of Python. They can be animated by curves
or used in driver paths.

### Context¶

While it’s useful to be able to access data directly by name or as a list,
it’s more common to operate on the user’s selection. The context is always
available from `bpy.context` and can be used to get the active object, scene,
tool settings along with many other attributes.

Some common use cases are:

    
    
    >>> bpy.context.object
    >>> bpy.context.selected_objects
    >>> bpy.context.visible_bones
    

Note that the context is read-only, which means that these values cannot be
modified directly. But they can be changed by running API functions or by
using the data API.

So `bpy.context.active_object = obj` will raise an error. But
`bpy.context.view_layer.objects.active = obj` works as expected.

The context attributes change depending on where they are accessed. The 3D
Viewport has different context members than the Python Console, so take care
when accessing context attributes that the user state is known.

See [`bpy.context`](bpy.context.html#module-bpy.context "bpy.context") API
reference.

### Operators (Tools)¶

Operators are tools generally accessed by the user from buttons, menu items or
key shortcuts. From the user perspective they are a tool but Python can run
these with its own settings through the [`bpy.ops`](bpy.ops.html#module-
bpy.ops "bpy.ops") module.

Examples:

    
    
    >>> bpy.ops.mesh.flip_normals()
    {'FINISHED'}
    >>> bpy.ops.mesh.hide(unselected=False)
    {'FINISHED'}
    >>> bpy.ops.object.transform_apply()
    {'FINISHED'}
    

Tip

The [Operator Cheat
Sheet](https://docs.blender.org/manual/en/dev/advanced/operators.html#bpy-ops-
wm-operator-cheat-sheet "\(in Blender 5.0 Manual v5.0\)") gives a list of all
operators and their default values in Python syntax, along with the generated
docs. This is a good way to get an overview of all Blender’s operators.

#### Operator Poll()¶

Many operators have a “poll” function which checks if the cursor is in a valid
area or if the object is in the correct mode (Edit Mode, Weight Paint Mode,
etc). When an operator’s poll function fails within Python, an exception is
raised.

For example, calling `bpy.ops.view3d.render_border()` from the console raises
the following error:

    
    
    RuntimeError: Operator bpy.ops.view3d.render_border.poll() failed, context is incorrect
    

In this case the context must be the 3D Viewport with an active camera.

To avoid using try-except clauses wherever operators are called, you can call
the operators own `poll()` function to check if it can run the operator in the
current context.

    
    
    if bpy.ops.view3d.render_border.poll():
        bpy.ops.view3d.render_border()
    

## Integration¶

Python scripts can integrate with Blender in the following ways:

  * By defining a render engine.

  * By defining operators.

  * By defining menus, headers and panels.

  * By inserting new buttons into existing menus, headers and panels.

In Python, this is done by defining a class, which is a subclass of an
existing type.

### Example Operator¶

    
    
    import bpy
    
    
    def main(context):
        for ob in context.scene.objects:
            print(ob)
    
    
    class SimpleOperator(bpy.types.Operator):
        """Tooltip"""
        bl_idname = "object.simple_operator"
        bl_label = "Simple Object Operator"
    
        @classmethod
        def poll(cls, context):
            return context.active_object is not None
    
        def execute(self, context):
            main(context)
            return {'FINISHED'}
    
    
    def menu_func(self, context):
        self.layout.operator(SimpleOperator.bl_idname, text=SimpleOperator.bl_label)
    
    
    # Register and add to the "object" menu (required to also use F3 search "Simple Object Operator" for quick access).
    def register():
        bpy.utils.register_class(SimpleOperator)
        bpy.types.VIEW3D_MT_object.append(menu_func)
    
    
    def unregister():
        bpy.utils.unregister_class(SimpleOperator)
        bpy.types.VIEW3D_MT_object.remove(menu_func)
    
    
    if __name__ == "__main__":
        register()
    
        # Test call.
        bpy.ops.object.simple_operator()
    

Once this script runs, `SimpleOperator` is registered with Blender and can be
called from Operator Search or added to the toolbar.

To run the script:

  1. Start Blender and switch to the Scripting workspace.

  2. Click the _New_ button in the text editor to create a new text data-block.

  3. Copy the code from above and paste it into the text editor.

  4. Click on the _Run Script_ button.

  5. Move your cursor into the 3D Viewport, open the [Operator Search menu](https://docs.blender.org/manual/en/dev/interface/operators.html#bpy-ops-wm-search-menu "\(in Blender 5.0 Manual v5.0\)"), and type “Simple”.

  6. Click on the “Simple Operator” item found in search.

See also

The class members with the `bl_` prefix are documented in the API reference
[`bpy.types.Operator`](bpy.types.Operator.html#bpy.types.Operator
"bpy.types.Operator").

Note

The output from the `main` function is sent to the terminal; in order to see
this, be sure to [use the terminal](info_tips_and_tricks.html#use-the-
terminal).

### Example Panel¶

Panels are registered as a class, like an operator. Notice the extra `bl_`
variables used to set the context they display in.

    
    
    import bpy
    
    
    class HelloWorldPanel(bpy.types.Panel):
        """Creates a Panel in the Object properties window"""
        bl_label = "Hello World Panel"
        bl_idname = "OBJECT_PT_hello"
        bl_space_type = 'PROPERTIES'
        bl_region_type = 'WINDOW'
        bl_context = "object"
    
        def draw(self, context):
            layout = self.layout
    
            obj = context.object
    
            row = layout.row()
            row.label(text="Hello world!", icon='WORLD_DATA')
    
            row = layout.row()
            row.label(text="Active object is: " + obj.name)
            row = layout.row()
            row.prop(obj, "name")
    
            row = layout.row()
            row.operator("mesh.primitive_cube_add")
    
    
    def register():
        bpy.utils.register_class(HelloWorldPanel)
    
    
    def unregister():
        bpy.utils.unregister_class(HelloWorldPanel)
    
    
    if __name__ == "__main__":
        register()
    

To run the script:

  1. Start Blender and switch to the Scripting workspace.

  2. Click the _New_ button in the text editor to create a new text data-block.

  3. Copy the code from above and paste it into the text editor.

  4. Click on the _Run Script_ button.

To view the results:

  1. Select the default cube.

  2. Click on the Object properties icon in the buttons panel (far right; appears as a tiny cube).

  3. Scroll down to see a panel named “Hello World Panel”.

  4. Changing the object name also updates _Hello World Panel’s_ name: field.

Note the row distribution and the label and properties that are defined
through the code.

See also

[`bpy.types.Panel`](bpy.types.Panel.html#bpy.types.Panel "bpy.types.Panel")

## Types¶

Blender defines a number of Python types but also uses Python native types.
Blender’s Python API can be split up into three categories.

### Native Types¶

In simple cases returning a number or a string as a custom type would be
cumbersome, so these are accessed as normal Python types.

  * Blender float, int, boolean -> float, int, boolean

  * Blender enumerator -> string
        
        >>> C.object.rotation_mode = 'AXIS_ANGLE'
        

  * Blender enumerator (multiple) -> set of strings
        
        # Setting multiple snap targets.
        bpy.context.scene.tool_settings.snap_elements_base = {'VERTEX', 'EDGE'}
        
        # Passing as an operator argument for report types.
        self.report({'WARNING', 'INFO'}, "Some message!")
        

### Internal Types¶

[`bpy.types.bpy_struct`](bpy.types.bpy_struct.html#bpy.types.bpy_struct
"bpy.types.bpy_struct") is used for Blender data-blocks and collections. Also
for data that contains its own attributes: collections, meshes, bones, scenes,
etc.

There are two main types that wrap Blender’s data, one for data-blocks (known
internally as `bpy_struct`), another for properties.

    
    
    >>> bpy.context.object
    bpy.data.objects['Cube']
    
    
    
    >>> C.scene.objects
    bpy.data.scenes['Scene'].objects
    

Note that these types reference Blender’s data so modifying them is visible
immediately.

### Mathutils Types¶

Accessible from [`mathutils`](mathutils.html#module-mathutils "mathutils") are
vectors, quaternions, Euler angles, matrix and color types. Some attributes
such as
[`bpy.types.Object.location`](bpy.types.Object.html#bpy.types.Object.location
"bpy.types.Object.location"),
[`bpy.types.PoseBone.rotation_euler`](bpy.types.PoseBone.html#bpy.types.PoseBone.rotation_euler
"bpy.types.PoseBone.rotation_euler") and `bpy.types.Scene.cursor_location` can
be accessed as special math types which can be used together and manipulated
in various useful ways.

Example of a matrix, vector multiplication:

    
    
    bpy.context.object.matrix_world @ bpy.context.object.data.verts[0].co
    

Note

mathutils types keep a reference to Blender’s internal data so changes can be
applied back.

Example:

    
    
    # Modifies the Z axis in place.
    bpy.context.object.location.z += 2.0
    
    # Location variable holds a reference to the object too.
    location = bpy.context.object.location
    location *= 2.0
    
    # Copying the value drops the reference so the value can be passed to
    # functions and modified without unwanted side effects.
    location = bpy.context.object.location.copy()
    

## Animation¶

There are two ways to add keyframes through Python.

The first is through key properties directly, which is like inserting a
keyframe from the button as a user. You can also manually create the curves
and keyframe data, then set the path to the property. Here are examples of
both methods. Both insert a keyframe on the active object’s Z axis.

Simple example:

    
    
    obj = bpy.context.object
    obj.location[2] = 0.0
    obj.keyframe_insert(data_path="location", frame=10.0, index=2)
    obj.location[2] = 1.0
    obj.keyframe_insert(data_path="location", frame=20.0, index=2)
    

Using low-level functions:

    
    
    obj = bpy.context.object
    
    # Create the action, with a slot for the object, a layer, and a keyframe strip:
    action = bpy.data.actions.new(name="MyAction")
    slot = action.slots.new(obj.id_type, obj.name)
    strip = action.layers.new("MyLayer").strips.new(type='KEYFRAME')
    
    # Create a channelbag to hold the F-Curves for the slot:
    channelbag = strip.channelbag(slot, ensure=True)
    
    # Create the F-Curve with two keyframes:
    fcu_z = channelbag.fcurves.new(data_path="location", index=2)
    fcu_z.keyframe_points.add(2)
    fcu_z.keyframe_points[0].co = 10.0, 0.0
    fcu_z.keyframe_points[1].co = 20.0, 1.0
    
    # Assign the action and the slot to the object:
    adt = obj.animation_data_create()
    adt.action = action
    adt.action_slot = slot
    
  *[API]: Application Programming Interface

