---
url: https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/rhinopython/eto-controls-python/
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T15:38:00.564102
title: Untitled
---

[RhinoDeveloperÂ®](/)

[design, model, present, analyze, realize...](/)

[![Rhino Logo](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/rhinodevlogo.png)](/)

__

[Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides)
[Samples](https://developer.rhino3d.com/samples)
[API](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api)
[Videos](https://developer.rhino3d.com/videos)
[Community](https://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rhino-developer) [my account
](https://www.rhino3d.com/my-account/ "Manage your account, licenses, and
teams")

[Eto Controls in Python](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/rhinopython/eto-
controls-python/)

  * Buttons
  * Calendar
  * CheckBox
  * ColorPicker
  * ComboBox
  * DateTimePicker
  * DropDown
  * GridView
  * GroupBox
  * ImageView
  * Label
  * LinkButton
  * ListBox
  * NumericUpDown
  * PasswordBox
  * ProgressBar
  * RadioButtonList
  * RichTextArea
  * Slider
  * Spinner
  * TextArea
  * TextBox
  * TreeGridView
  * WebView
  * Sample Dialogs
  * Related Topics

[Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/en/guides/) / [Rhino.Python
Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/en/guides/rhinopython/) /

Eto Controls in Python

by [Scott Davidson](https://discourse.mcneel.com/u/scottd/) (Last updated:
Monday, August 12, 2019)

[Eto is an open source cross-platform dialog box
framework](https://github.com/picoe/Eto/wiki) available in Rhino 6. This guide
demonstrates the syntax required to create the most common Eto controls in
Rhino.Python. Eto controls include labels, buttons, edit boxes and sliders. In
Eto there are [more than 35 different
controls](https://github.com/picoe/Eto/wiki/Controls) that can be created.

For details on creating a complete Eto Dialog in Rhino.Python go to the
[Getting Started with Eto
Guide](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/rhinopython/eto-forms-python/).
The samples in this guide can be added to the controls section of the Basic
dialog framework covered in the [Getting Started
Guide](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/rhinopython/eto-forms-python/).

## Buttons

Buttons are placed on almost every dialog.

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-
buttons.svg](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-buttons.svg)

Creating a new button is simple. Use the `forms.Button` and specify the `Text`
that is shown on the button face. In addition to creating the new button, an
action is commonly attached through the `.Click` event. Use the `+=` syntax as
shown below to bind the action to button.

    
    
            self.m_button = forms.Button(Text = 'OK')
            self.m_button.Click += self.OnButtonClick
    

The bound method, listed later in the calss definition is run if the button is
clicked.

    
    
        # Close button click handler
        def OnOKButtonClick(self, sender, e):
            if self.m_textbox.Text == "":
                self.Close(False)
            else:
                self.Close(True)
    

In this specific case the button is clicked and the bound method
`OnOKButtonClick` checks the Text of the `m_textbox` to to determine if
anything has been entered. Then the method closes the dialog, returning either
`True` or `False`.

The _Eto.Dialog class_ has two special reserved names for buttons, the
`DefaultButton` and the `AbortButton`. The `DefaultButton` name will create a
button that is a standard button and also will receive a click event if the
`Enter Key` is used. The `AbortButton` is a button that recieves a `.Click`
event if the `ESC` key is used. These buttons are simple assigned through the
name of the control, using `self` syntax.

The syntax for the `DefaultButton` is:

    
    
    self.DefaultButton = forms.Button(Text = 'OK')
    

And for the `AbortButton` is:

    
    
    self.AbortButton = forms.Button(Text = 'Cancel')
    

The `DefaultButton` and `AbortButton` normally close the dialog by using the
`self.close()` method of the dialog. Please note that even though the dialog
is closed, that values of the controls are still accesable to the rest of the
script.

More details can be found in the [Eto Button API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_Button.htm).

## Calendar

A Calendar control is used to pick a date or range of dates.

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
calendar.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-calendar.png)

Creating a Calender is very simple:

    
    
        #Create a Calender
        self.m_calender = forms.Calendar()
    

Often other properties are set on the calendar control. There are a number of
properties of a calender control that can be used to modify how the control
works.

    
    
        #Create a Calendar
        self.m_calendar = forms.Calendar()
        self.m_calendar.Mode = forms.CalendarMode.Single
        self.m_calendar.MaxDate = System.DateTime(2017,7,31)
        self.m_calendar.MinDate = System.DateTime(2017,7,1)
        self.m_calendar.SelectedDate = System.DateTime(2017,7,15)
    

The `.Mode` property sets if only a single date can be setting
`forms.CalendarMode.Single` or date range can be selected by setting `.mode`
to `forms.CalendarMode.Range`.

The `MaxDate` and `.MinDate` property limits the range of dates that can be
selected from.

The `.SelectedDate` will result in that date being initially selected.

More details can be found in the [Eto Calendar API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_Calendar.htm).

## CheckBox

A Checkbox control can be used to specify `True` and `False`:

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-dialog-
checkbox.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-dialog-checkbox.png)

The simpliest syntax for a CheckBox is:

    
    
        #Create a Checkbox
        self.m_checkbox = forms.CheckBox(Text = 'My Checkbox')
    

The `Text` property set the text visibel next to the control. By default the
CheckBox is unchecked and carries a value of _None_. Once checked it contains
a booloean value of True. Once unchecked, the value is `False`.

The intial state of the checkbox can be set in the class. The checkbox will be
checked by default by adding the line:

    
    
        self.m_checkbox.Checked = True
    

More details can be found in the [Eto Checkbox API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_CheckBox.htm).

## ColorPicker

To select a single color from a drop down use the ColorPicker. This control
also supports a right-click menu on the dropdown arrow. The right-click menu
gives access to the eye dropper and the standard system color picker dialog.

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-dialog-
colorpicker.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-dialog-
colorpicker.png)

This simple code below will create a color picker with a blank default color:

    
    
            #Create a ColorPicker Control
            self.m_colorpicker = forms.ColorPicker()
    

The initial default color may be set in the control by adding the code:

    
    
            defaultcolor = Eto.Drawing.Color.FromArgb(255, 0,0)
            self.m_colorpicker.Value = defaultcolor
    

More details can be found in the [Eto ColorPicker API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_ColorPicker.htm)
and [Eto.Drawing.Color
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Drawing_Color.htm)

## ComboBox

A Combo box is a drop down list of items that also allows input of text
directly:

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
combobox.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-combobox.png)

    
    
            #Create Combobox
            self.m_combobox = forms.ComboBox()
            self.m_combobox.DataStore = ['first pick', 'second pick', 'third pick']
    

The default value can be set to display by adding the index postition to the
DataStore property:

    
    
            self.m_combobox.SelectedIndex = 1
    

## DateTimePicker

Use the DateTimePicker to select a date and/or a time:

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
datetimepicker.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
datetimepicker.png)

Similiar to the Calendar control, there is also a DateTimePicker. The `.Mode`
can be set on the control to display the `.Date` or `.Time`. The `.Date`
version differs from the `.Calendar` control by accessing the date through a
dropdown menu:

    
    
            #Create DateTime Picker in Date mode
            self.m_datetimedate = forms.DateTimePicker()
            self.m_datetimedate.Mode = forms.DateTimePickerMode.Date
            self.m_datetimedate.MaxDate = System.DateTime(2017,7,30)
            self.m_datetimedate.MinDate = System.DateTime(2017,7,1)
            self.m_datetimedate.Value = System.DateTime(2017,7,15)
    

The `.Time` mode creates a spinner where the time of day can be selected:

    
    
            #Create DateTime Picker in Date mode
            self.m_datetimetime = forms.DateTimePicker()
            self.m_datetimetime.Mode = forms.DateTimePickerMode.Time
            self.m_datetimetime.Value = System.DateTime.Now
            self.m_datetimetime.Value = System.DateTime(2017, 1, 1, 23, 43, 49, 500)
    

More details can be found in the [Eto DateTimePicker API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_DateTimePicker.htm).

## DropDown

Drop down menu with a list of items.

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
combobox.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-combobox.png)

    
    
            #Create Dropdown List
            self.m_dropdownlist = forms.DropDown()
            self.m_dropdownlist.DataStore = ['first', 'second', 'third']
    

The default selection can be set by using the index location in the DataStore:

    
    
            self.m_dropdownlist.SelectedIndex = 1
    

More details can be found in the [Eto DropDown API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_DropDown.htm).

## GridView

A virtualized grid of data with editable cells. The `GridView` is used to
emulate a ListView control:

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
gridview.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-gridview.png)

Creating a `.GridView()` is more involved then othe ETo controls. Start by
creating the `.GridView` then populate the control with `forms.GridColumn()`.
Each `.GridColumn` has a `.HeaderText`, `.Editable` property and contains a
`.DataCell`. The `.DataCell` can display a `TextBoxCell` or a `CheckBoxCell`.
After each `.GridColumn` is created, then add it to the `.GridView` through
the `self.m_gridview.Columns.Add(column1)` method. The sample below populates
4 columns in the `.GridView`:

    
    
            #Create Gridview
            self.m_gridview = forms.GridView()
            self.m_gridview.ShowHeader = True
            self.m_gridview.DataStore = (['first pick', 'second pick', 'third pick', True],['second','fourth','last', False])
    
            column1 = forms.GridColumn()
            column1.HeaderText = 'Column 1'
            column1.Editable = True
            column1.DataCell = forms.TextBoxCell(0)
            self.m_gridview.Columns.Add(column1)
    
            column2 = forms.GridColumn()
            column2.HeaderText = 'Column 2'
            column2.Editable = True
            column2.DataCell = forms.TextBoxCell(1)
            self.m_gridview.Columns.Add(column2)
    
            column3 = forms.GridColumn()
            column3.HeaderText = 'Column 3'
            column3.Editable = True
            column3.DataCell = forms.TextBoxCell(2)
            self.m_gridview.Columns.Add(column3)
    
            column4 = forms.GridColumn()
            column4.HeaderText = 'Column 4'
            column4.Editable = True
            column4.DataCell = forms.CheckBoxCell(3)
            self.m_gridview.Columns.Add(column4)
    

Accessing the values in each cell of the `forms.GridView` can be done by using
the index position of the value in the `.DataStore` property.

    
    
    dialog.m_gridview.DataStore[1][2]
    

This will result in a value of âthird pickâ in the above example.

More details can be found in the [Eto GridView API
Documentation](https://github.com/picoe/Eto/wiki/GridView).

## GroupBox

A GroupBox displays a collection of controls surrounded by a border and
optional title to identify the group:

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
groupbox.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-groupbox.png)

Like the larger dialog, the `forms.GroupBox()` requires a _Layout_ to help
position controls. Within the layout, controls are placed. Once the controls
are created, the controls are added to rows in the layout, which is then added
to the contents of the `forms.GroupBox` with the line `self.m_groupbox.Content
= grouplayout`:

    
    
    # Create a group box
            self.m_groupbox = forms.GroupBox(Text = 'Groupbox')
            self.m_groupbox.Padding = drawing.Padding(5)
    
            grouplayout = forms.DynamicLayout()
            grouplayout.Spacing = Size(3, 3)
    
            label1 = forms.Label(Text = 'Enter Text:')
            textbox1 = forms.TextBox()
    
            checkbox1 = forms.CheckBox(Text = 'Start a new row')
    
            grouplayout.AddRow(label1, textbox1)
            grouplayout.AddRow(checkbox1)
    
            self.m_groupbox.Content = grouplayout
    

More details can be found in the [Eto GroupBox API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_GroupBox.htm).

## ImageView

A control to display a single bitmap image:

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
imageview.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
imageview.png)

Creating a space for a ImageView is easy. The first 3 lines below create the
`forms.ImageView()` and set its size. Populating formatting a bitmap to show
in the `forms.ImageView()` is more difficult. In this sample a RHino view
Capture is converted into a `drawing.Bitmap()` and set to the `.Image`
property to show in the `forms.ImageView()`.

    
    
    # Create an image view
            self.m_image_view = forms.ImageView()
            self.m_image_view.Size = drawing.Size(300, 200)
            self.m_image_view.Image = None
    
            # Capture the active view to a System.Drawing.Bitmap
            view = scriptcontext.doc.Views.ActiveView
            self.m_image_view.Image = Rhino.UI.EtoExtensions.ToEto(view.CaptureToBitmap())
    

Bitmaps may be formatted from a number of different forms. In this case the
`view.CaptureToBitmap()` image is translated to an Eto bitmap using the
`Rhino.UI.EtoExtensions.ToEto()` method.

More details can be found in the [Eto ImageView API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_ImageView.htm).

## Label

The simplest Eto Control is the `forms.Label()`. It is text that normally is
used to create a prompt, label, message or description for another control.

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-
label.svg](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-label.svg)

    
    
    self.m_label = forms.Label(Text = 'Enter the Room Number:')
    

As with many controls, the line above create a name for the control `m_label`.
Then the main property of a Label is the text it shows by setting the Text
Property of the label.

Normally this is as complex as a label needs to get, but a label also has many
more properties. Additonal properties include `VerticalAlignment`, `Horizontal
Alignment`, `TextAlignment`, `Wrap`, `TextColor`, and `Font`. Properties can
be added to the `Label()` by including each keyword separated by a comma(`,`)
as follows:

    
    
    self.m_label = forms.Label(Text = 'Enter the Room Number:', VerticalAlignment = VerticalAlignment.Center)
    

Labels also can be created directly in layouts directly. There is a shorthand
syntax when adding controls to a layout that will automatically create a
`forms.Label`

    
    
      #Adds a new Label diplaying "Camera:"
      layout.AddRow('Camera:', None)
    
      #Adds a new label displaying "Name :" inline with the Textbox control.
      layout.AddRow('Name:', forms.TextBox(Text = 'Persp1'))
    

When adding Rows or Columns, a simple string can be inserted. Eto will
automatically create a Label out of the string. This is a very fast way yo
make `forms.Label`.

For a complete list of properties and events of the Label class, see the [Eto
Label Class](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_Label.htm)
documentation.

## LinkButton

A LinkButton is a simple label that acts like a button, similar to a
hyperlink:

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
linkbutton.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
linkbutton.png)

Like a standard button the `forms.LinkButton()` needs to be bound to an action
through the `+=` syntax:

    
    
    # Create LinkButton
            self.m_linkbutton = forms.LinkButton(Text = 'For more details...')
            self.m_linkbutton.Click += self.OnLinkButtonClick
    
        # Linkbutton click handler
        def OnLinkButtonClick(self, sender, e):
            webbrowser.open("http://rhino3d.com")
    

More details can be found in the [Eto LinkButton API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_LinkButton.htm).

## ListBox

Create a scrollable list of items to select:

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
listbox.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-listbox.png)

The `forms.ListBox()` and the `.DataStore` is required to create a
`forms.ListBox`:

    
    
            #Create ListBox
            self.m_listbox = forms.ListBox()
            self.m_listbox.DataStore = ['first pick', 'second pick', 'third pick']
            self.m_listbox.SelectedIndex = 1
    

The `self.m_listbox.SelectedIndex = 1` is optional and sets the default
selected object withing the DataStore.

More details can be found in the [Eto ListBox API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_ListBox.htm).

## NumericUpDown

Numeric control that allows the user to adjust the value with the mouse using
a spinner:

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
numericupdown.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
numericupdown.png)

Controlling the behavior of the spinner when clicking on the up or down arrows
is key to the `forms.NumericUpDown()` control:

    
    
    # Create Numeric Up Down
            self.m_numeric_updown = forms.NumericUpDown()
            self.m_numeric_updown.DecimalPlaces = 2
            self.m_numeric_updown.Increment = 0.01
            self.m_numeric_updown.MaxValue = 10.0
            self.m_numeric_updown.MinValue = 1.0
            self.m_numeric_updown.Value = 5.0
    

More details can be found in the [Eto NumericUpDown API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_NumericUpDown.htm).

## PasswordBox

Use the `forms.PasswordBox()` to enter passwords or sensitive data with the
text masked out:

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
password.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-password.png)

The `.MaxLength` property is optional:

    
    
    # Create Password Box
            self.m_password = forms.PasswordBox()
            self.m_password.MaxLength = 7
    

More details can be found at the [Eto PasswordBox API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_PasswordBox.htm).

## ProgressBar

Use the `forms.ProgressBar` to display the progress of long running tasks:

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
progressbar.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
progressbar.png)

The first step is to create the `forms.ProgressBar` with its minmimu and
maxmum values:

    
    
    # Create Progress Bar
            self.m_progressbar = forms.ProgressBar()
            self.m_progressbar.MinValue = 0
            self.m_progressbar.MaxValue = 10
    

The control can be set through the `.Value` property on the control as in the
last line in the example below:

    
    
    self.m_progress = 1
    
        # GoButton button click handler
        def OnGoButtonClick(self, sender, e):
            self.m_progress = self.m_progress + 1
            if self.m_progress > 10:
                self.m_progress = 10
            self.m_progressbar.Value = self.m_progress
    

More details can be found in the [Eto ProgressBar API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_ProgressBar.htm).

## RadioButtonList

Create a series of Radio buttons that allow a single selection out of the
list:

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
radiobuttonlist.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
radiobuttonlist.png)

Creating the `forms.RadioButtonList()` control is simple. Then populate the
list with a `.DataStore`:

    
    
    # Create Radio Button List Control
            self.m_radiobuttonlist = forms.RadioButtonList()
            self.m_radiobuttonlist.DataStore = ['first pick', 'second pick', 'third pick']
            self.m_radiobuttonlist.Orientation = forms.Orientation.Vertical
            self.m_radiobuttonlist.SelectedIndex = 1
    

The `.Orientation` of the list can be set to `forms.Orientation.Vertical` or
`forms.Orientation.Horizontal`. This is an optional property.

The `.SelectedIndex` sets the initial default selected object in the list.

More details can be found in the [Eto RadioButtonList API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_RadioButtonList.htm).

## RichTextArea

Multi-line text area with rich text formatting:

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
richtextarea.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
richtextarea.png)

This differs from the TextBox in that it is used for multi-line text entry and
can accept Tab and Enter input.

    
    
    # Create Rich Text Edit Box
            self.m_richtextarea = forms.RichTextArea()
            self.m_richtextarea.Size = drawing.Size(400, 400)
    

The text can be formatted by using keystrokes. While these keystrokes may vary
on different platforms, a good list of modifier keystrokes for this control
can be found on the [Microsoft MSDN Editing Commands
documentation](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-
us/library/system.windows.documents.editingcommands.aspx#Anchor_3).

More details can be found in the [Eto RichTextArea API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_RichTextArea.htm).

## Slider

A horizontal or vertical slider to select a value from a range:

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
slider.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-slider.png)

A slider consists of the control, the maximum and minimum values. The initial
`.Value` can also be set at the time the dialog is created:

    
    
    # Create a slider
            self.m_slider = forms.Slider()
            self.m_slider.MaxValue = 10
            self.m_slider.MinValue = 0
            self.m_slider.Value = 3
    

To set the sldier into a vertical orientation, add the line:

    
    
            self.m_slider.Orientation = forms.Orientation.Vertical
    

More details can be found in the [Eto Slider API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_Slider.htm).

## Spinner

A spinner to show indeterminate progress in compact space:

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
spinner.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-spinner.png)

When creating the `forms.Spinner()`, setting the `.Enabled` to `True` willl
activate the spinning motion:

    
    
    # Create Spinner
            self.m_spinner = forms.Spinner()
            self.m_spinner.Enabled = True
    

More details can be found in the [Eto Spinner API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_Spinner.htm).

## TextArea

Multi-line text control with scrollbars:

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
richtextarea.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
richtextarea.png)

A simplified version of the `forms.RichTextArea()`. The `forms.TextArea()`
controls needs only a couple lines:

    
    
    # Create Text Area Box
            self.m_textarea = forms.TextArea()
            self.m_textarea.Size = drawing.Size(400, 400)
    

More details can be found in the [Eto TextArea API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_TextArea.htm).

## TextBox

A TextBox is used to enter a string into the dialog.

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-
textbox.svg](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-textbox.svg)

To check the contents of the textbox in the script, the textbox control must
have a name to reference it.

    
    
            self.m_textbox = forms.TextBox()
    

In this case the name `m_textbox` can be used to reference the control later
in the class method starting on line 44:

    
    
        # Get the value of the textbox
        def GetText(self):
            return self.m_textbox.Text
    

Just creating a new `Eto.Forms.TextBox()` is common. There are a number of
additional properties of a TextBox which can be used to control the input.
These properties include `MaxLength`, `PlaceholderText`, `InsertMode` and many
more that can be seen in the [Eto TextBox
Class](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_TextBox.htm).

## TreeGridView

A TreeView with additional property columns:

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-dialog-
treegridview.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-dialog-
treegridview.png)

The TreeGridView takes the two most sophisticated controls in Eto, TreeView
and GridView to combine them into one control. This make the control powerful,
but also requires very specific syntax to work. The first two lines are
standard, create the `forms.TreeGridView()` and set its size:

The `forms.TreeView()` control requires some very specific syntax. The general
`TreeView` container is easy enough. Set the object up and then its size. If
editing of the items in the tree, then the `.LabelEdit` property can be set to
`True`.

    
    
    # Create TreeGridView
            self.m_treegridview = forms.TreeGridView()
            self.m_treegridview.Size = drawing.Size(200, 200)
    
            column1 = forms.GridColumn()
            column1.HeaderText = 'Tree'
            column1.Editable = True
            column1.DataCell = forms.TextBoxCell(0)
            self.m_treegridview.Columns.Add(column1)
    
            column2 = forms.GridColumn()
            column2.HeaderText = 'Prop 2'
            column2.Editable = True
            column2.DataCell = forms.TextBoxCell(1)
            self.m_treegridview.Columns.Add(column2)
    
            column3 = forms.GridColumn()
            column3.HeaderText = 'Prop 3'
            column3.Editable = True
            column3.DataCell = forms.TextBoxCell(2)
            self.m_treegridview.Columns.Add(column3)
    
            treecollection = forms.TreeGridItemCollection()
            item1 = forms.TreeGridItem(Values=('node1', 'node1b', 'node1c'))
            item1.Expanded = True
            item1.Children.Add(forms.TreeGridItem(Values=('node2', 'node2b', 'node2c')))
            item1.Children.Add(forms.TreeGridItem(Values=('node3', 'node3b', 'node3c')))
            treecollection.Add(item1)
            item2 = forms.TreeGridItem(Values=('node11', 'node11b', 'node11c'))
            treecollection.Add(item2)
            self.m_treegridview.DataStore = treecollection
    

After setting up the `forms.TreeGridView()` the columns to display in the
control need to be created as `form.GridColumn()`. The `.DataCell` property
points to the `forms.TextBoxCell(index)` that exists in the `.DataStore`
assigned at the last line of this script.

The information for for a tree is stored into a `forms.TreeGridCollection()`.
Items within the tree are a `forms.TreeGridItems` that have `.Values` of
tuples. Each tuple will populate a row in the `forms.TreeGridView()`.

The `forms.TreeGridView` does not automatically update it contents. After all
the control is setup, the `DataStore` is set to the `treecollection`. Doing
this is a different order may end up in a control that does not display the
data.

More details can be found in the [Eto TreeGridView API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_TreeGridView.htm).

## WebView

Display a live web page in a panel:

![https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-
webview.png](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/eto-controls-webview.png)

Creating the `forms.WebView()` is simple by creating the webview, then to set
its size. The starting web URL can be set through the use of a `System.Uri`
set to the `.Url` property:

    
    
    # Create a WebView
            self.m_webview = forms.WebView()
            self.m_webview.Size = drawing.Size(300, 400)
            self.m_webview.Url = System.Uri('http://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/rhinopython/')
    

More details can be found in the [Eto WebView API
Documentation](http://api.etoforms.picoe.ca/html/T_Eto_Forms_WebView.htm).

## Sample Dialogs

Now with some understanding of Eto Dialogs in Python, take a look at some of
the Sample dialogs in the [Python Developer Samples
Repo](https://github.com/mcneel/rhino-developer-
samples/blob/master/rhinopython):

  1. [A very simple dialog](https://github.com/mcneel/rhino-developer-samples/blob/6/rhinopython/SampleEtoDialog.py)
  2. [Rebuild curve Dialog](https://github.com/mcneel/rhino-developer-samples/blob/6/rhinopython/SampleEtoRebuildCurve.py)
  3. [Capture a view dialog](https://github.com/mcneel/rhino-developer-samples/blob/6/rhinopython/SampleEtoViewCaptureDialog.py)
  4. [Collapsable controls on a Dialog](https://github.com/mcneel/rhino-developer-samples/blob/6/rhinopython/SampleEtoCollapsibleDialog.py)

## Related Topics

  * [RhinoScriptSyntax User interface methods](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api/RhinoScriptSyntax/win/#userinterface)
  * [Custom Eto Forms in Python guide](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/rhinopython/eto-forms-python/)
  * [Eto Layouts in Python](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/rhinopython/eto-layouts-python/) guide
  * [Eto Controls in Python](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/rhinopython/eto-controls-python/) guide

Edit this page

[ Edit on
GitHub](https://github.com/mcneel/developer.rhino3d.com/edit/master/content/en/guides/rhinopython/eto-
controls-python/index.md) [
History](https://github.com/mcneel/developer.rhino3d.com/commits/master/content/en/guides/rhinopython/eto-
controls-python/index.md) [ Admin](https://developer.rhino3d.com/admin)

[Find a Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Shop online](https://www.rhino3d.com/store) or find a
[Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Find a Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Privacy Policy](https://www.rhino3d.com/privacy) â¢
[About](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/about) â¢ [Contact
Us](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/contact) â¢ [
Language](https://www.rhino3d.com/language "Change to a different region or
language")

[Copyright Â© 1993-2025 Robert McNeel & Associates. All Rights
Reserved.](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/about)

[](https://www.facebook.com/McNeelRhinoceros/)
[](https://twitter.com/bobmcneel) [](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/75313/)
[](https://www.youtube.com/user/RhinoGuide/videos) [](https://vimeo.com/rhino)
[![Blogger
icon](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/blogger.svg)](http://blog.rhino3d.com/)
[![Food4Rhino](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/f4r_icon_01.svg)](https://www.food4rhino.com)

