---
url: https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T15:43:27.614112
title: Untitled
---

[RhinoDeveloper®](/)

[design, model, present, analyze, realize...](/)

[![Rhino Logo](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/rhinodevlogo.png)](/)

__

[Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides)
[Samples](https://developer.rhino3d.com/samples)
[API](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api)
[Videos](https://developer.rhino3d.com/videos)
[Community](https://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rhino-developer) [my account
](https://www.rhino3d.com/my-account/ "Manage your account, licenses, and
teams")

Eto Guides

Guides that apply to developing UIs across platforms using Eto.

__Follow Along __

If you’re new to Eto, or even an advanced user, it is recommended to open the
[script editor](http://localhost:1313/guides/scripting/scripting-
command/#first-script) and copy/paste (or better yet write out!) the sample
code so you can walk through and understand how Eto works.

Each page with samples will have both C# and Python 3 (The samples ARE NOT
designed for Python 2), will work on both Windows and Mac and assumes little
familiarity with Rhino.

If you’re new to programming, this guide will not cover the basics, but will
help you dive head-first into C# and/or Python.

### Overview

  * [What is Eto?](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/what-is-eto/)
  * [Why Eto?](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/why-eto/)

### Getting Started

  * [Required Tools](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/required-tools/)

## Fundamentals

### Overview

  * [Forms & Dialogs](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/forms-and-dialogs/)
  * [Existing Dialogs](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/existing-dialogs/)
  * [Containers](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/containers/)
    * [Panels](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/containers/#panels)
    * [Tables](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/containers/#tables)
    * [Stack Layouts](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/containers/#stack-layouts)
    * [Dynamic Layouts](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/containers/#dynamic-layouts)
    * [Pixel Layouts](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/containers/#pixel-layouts)
  * [Control Properties](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/control-properties/)
  * [Clipboard (Copy & Paste)](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/clipboard/)

### Eto Native Controls

  * [Basic Controls](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/controls/)
    * [Button](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/controls/#button)
    * [DropDown](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/controls/#drop-down)
    * [Radio Buttons](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/controls/#radio-buttons)
    * [Check Boxes](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/controls/#check-boxes)
    * [Text Box](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/controls/#text-box)
    * [Text Area](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/controls/#text-area)
  * Advanced Controls 
    * [Drawable](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/advanced-controls/drawable/)

  * Grids 
    * [Cells](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/cells/)

## DataContext and View Models

__View Models __

This section is not for Python, python cannot use View Models and bindings in
the same way as C#.

### Getting Started

  * [DataContext](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/view-and-data/data-context/)
  * [What is a View Model?](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/view-and-data/view-models/)
  * [Binding Data with a ViewModel](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/view-and-data/binding/)

### Advanced

  * [Complex Bindings](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/view-and-data/complex-bindings/)
  * [How do Bindings work?](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/view-and-data/bindings-explained/)

## Further Reading

__Rhino 8 __

The examples below assume you are using Rhino 8, many of these methods or
controls may not exist in Rhino 7 or earlier.

### Rhino Specific Eto

  * [Extensions and Helpers](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/rhino-specific/)
    * [Proper Parenting](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/rhino-specific/#showing-a-dialog)
    * [Light and Dark Mode](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/rhino-specific/#rhinostyle)
    * [Converters](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/rhino-specific/#converters)
    * [Rhino Document](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/rhino-specific/#rhino-doc)

### Advanced

  * [Async](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/async/)
  * [Events](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/events/)

### Miscellaneous Eto examples

  * [Examples](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/eto/misc-examples/)

## Eto Links

  * [Eto Source](https://github.com/picoe/eto)
  * [Eto License](https://github.com/picoe/Eto/blob/develop/LICENSE.txt)
  * [Eto API Reference](http://pages.picoe.ca/docs/api/)
  * [Contributing to Eto](https://github.com/picoe/Eto/wiki/Contributing)
  * [Discus Rhino and Eto](https://discourse.mcneel.com/)

Edit this page

[ Edit on
GitHub](https://github.com/mcneel/developer.rhino3d.com/edit/master/content/en/guides/eto/_index.md)
[
History](https://github.com/mcneel/developer.rhino3d.com/commits/master/content/en/guides/eto/_index.md)
[ Admin](https://developer.rhino3d.com/admin)

[Find a Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Shop online](https://www.rhino3d.com/store) or find a
[Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Find a Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Privacy Policy](https://www.rhino3d.com/privacy) •
[About](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/about) • [Contact
Us](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/contact) • [
Language](https://www.rhino3d.com/language "Change to a different region or
language")

[Copyright © 1993-2025 Robert McNeel & Associates. All Rights
Reserved.](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/about)

[](https://www.facebook.com/McNeelRhinoceros/)
[](https://twitter.com/bobmcneel) [](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/75313/)
[](https://www.youtube.com/user/RhinoGuide/videos) [](https://vimeo.com/rhino)
[![Blogger
icon](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/blogger.svg)](http://blog.rhino3d.com/)
[![Food4Rhino](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/f4r_icon_01.svg)](https://www.food4rhino.com)

