---
url: https://freecad.github.io/SourceDoc/de/dea/group__i18n.html
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T14:51:28.674323
title: Untitled
---

  * [ ![](https://www.freecad.org/svg/logo-freecad.svg) ](https://freecadweb.org "FreeCAD")
  * [Index](../../index.html "Index")
  * [Modules](../../modules.html "Modules list")
  * [Classes](../../annotated.html "Annotated list")

Internationalization with FreeCAD

[Core](../../d4/d68/group__CORE.html) Â» [Gui](../../df/dd1/group__GUI.html)

The internationalization of FreeCAD makes heavy use of the
internationalization support of Qt.

The internationalization of FreeCAD makes heavy use of the
internationalization support of Qt.

For more details refer to your Qt documentation.

#  Step by step

To integrate a new language into FreeCAD or one of its application modules you
have to perform the following steps:

##  Creation of a .ts file

First you have to generate a .ts file for the language to be translated. You
can do this by running the _lupdate_ tool in the _bin_ path of your Qt
installation. As argument you can specify either all related source files and
the .ts output file or a Qt project file (.pro) which contains all relevant
source files.

##  Translation into your language

To translate the english string literals into the language you want to support
you can open your .ts file with _QtLinguist_ and translate all literals by
hand. Another way for translation is to use the tool _tsauto_ from Sebastien
Fricker.This tool uses the engine from Google web page (www.google.com).
tsauto supports the languages

  * english 
  * french 
  * german 
  * italian 
  * portuguese and 
  * spanish

Remarks

    To get most of the literals translated you should have removed all special characters (like &, !, ?, ...). Otherwise the translation could fail. After having translated all literals you can load the .ts file into QtLinguist and invoke the menu item _Release_ which generates the binary .qm file.

##  Integration of the .qm file

The .qm file should now be integrated into the GUI library (either of FreeCAD
itself or its application module). The .qm file will be embedded into the
resulting binary file. So, at runtime you don't need any .qm files any more.
Indeed you will have a bigger binary file but you haven't any troubles
concerning missing .qm files.

To integrate the .qm file into the executable you have to create a resource
file (.qrc), first. This is an XML file where you can append the .qm file. For
the .qrc file you have to define the following curstom build step inside the
Visual Studio project file:

Command [Line](../../db/db6/classLine.html): rcc.exe -name -o
"$(InputDir)qrc_$(InputName).cpp" Outputs: qrc_$(InputName).cpp

For the gcc build system you just have to add the line <resourcefile>.qrc to
the BUILT_SOURCES sources section of the Makefile.am, run automake and
configure (or ./confog.status) afterwards.

Finally, you have to add a the line

Q_INIT_RESOURCE(resource);

where _resource_ is the name of the .qrc file. That's all!

* * *

Generated by
[![doxygen](../../doxygen.svg)](https://www.doxygen.org/index.html) 1.9.4

