---
url: https://developer.rhino3d.com/api/grasshopper/html/0edd8dc9-32a7-40aa-b217-8e01e35e58bc.htm
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T16:10:24.788986
title: Untitled
---

Grasshopper API

[Grasshopper API](../html/723c01da-9986-4db2-8f53-6f3a7494df75.htm
"Grasshopper API")

[Examples](../html/d113a9f0-6e27-46df-8316-2079c44382ac.htm "Examples")

[Visual Basic .NET](../html/b883d0c0-4947-48bc-8e9e-492a6d6c2a06.htm "Visual
Basic .NET")

[Simple Component (VB)](../html/b883d0c0-4947-48bc-8e9e-492a6d6c2a06.htm
"Simple Component \(VB\)")

[Simple Mathematics (VB)](../html/2824c770-2673-49a3-8683-1a70bc0349cc.htm
"Simple Mathematics \(VB\)")

[Simple Geometry (VB)](../html/4306b177-1bf1-41bc-ac0e-2f6869d02365.htm
"Simple Geometry \(VB\)")

[Simple Data Types (VB)](../html/f9aa207f-3d19-414c-af01-1e5ad42a8cab.htm
"Simple Data Types \(VB\)")

[Simple Parameters (VB)](../html/0edd8dc9-32a7-40aa-b217-8e01e35e58bc.htm
"Simple Parameters \(VB\)")

[List Component (VB)](../html/4db493ec-0bb3-4b73-943a-fdff03863e1d.htm "List
Component \(VB\)")

[Extending the GUI (VB)](../html/99cd32c8-7c1f-4f9a-87ea-76b032de7f70.htm
"Extending the GUI \(VB\)")

[Custom Attributes (VB)](../html/ad6e93fe-e1c8-451e-a6d0-77cb8dd4516d.htm
"Custom Attributes \(VB\)")

[Custom Component Options
(VB)](../html/434018c0-6110-4478-bf2a-dcd099d8b8b2.htm "Custom Component
Options \(VB\)")

![Click or drag to resize](../icons/TocOpen.gif)![Click or drag to
resize](../icons/TocClose.gif)

# Simple Parameters (VB)  
  
---  
  
  * Introduction
  * Grasshopper.Kernel.IGH_Param
  * Types of Parameters
  * Data inside Parameters
  * A Custom Parameter Type
  * Collecting and Post-Processing Data

In this article we'll discuss parameters; what they are, what they're for,
what they can and cannot do. Parameters are a vital part of Grasshopper (the
other being components). However, unlike components, it is far less likely
that you'll need to make your own parameters. Most components require only the
native data types available inside Grasshopper. In those odd cases where you
need to work with custom data, you'll also need to create custom parameters
that store that data. In this topic, we'll create a parameter which can handle
the TriStateType we discussed in the [Simple Data
Types](f9aa207f-3d19-414c-af01-1e5ad42a8cab.htm) topic.

Parameters are responsible for storing and distributing data. Components use
them to collect existing data and output new data. Parameters can also be used
to convert data from one type into another, even though on the atomic level
the conversion is actually performed by the
[CastToT](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Types_IGH_Goo_CastTo__1.htm) and
[CastFrom](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Types_IGH_Goo_CastFrom.htm) methods on
[IGH_Goo](T_Grasshopper_Kernel_Types_IGH_Goo.htm). Most objects in the Special
subcategory on the Grasshopper toolbar are basically parameters with extended
GUIs. Parameters can also be used by themselves to store constant data or to
redirect data into multiple streams.

![](../icons/SectionExpanded.png)Grasshopper.Kernel.IGH_Param

All parameters in Grasshopper must implement the
[IGH_Param](T_Grasshopper_Kernel_IGH_Param.htm) interface. IGH_Param defines
the bare minimum of what a parameter must be able to do. There are some
interfaces that extend on IGH_Param, and also some abstract classes that
partially implement the interface. Note that IGH_Param already inherits from
IGH_ActiveObject, so it comes with a lot of baggage.

IGH_Param is quite an extensive interface, it defines nearly thirty properties
and methods, some of which are quite tricky to implement. It is highly
recommended that you do not directly implement IGH_Param, but derive from the
abstract [GH_ParamT](T_Grasshopper_Kernel_GH_Param_1.htm) class instead.
GH_Param(Of T) provides a basic implementation of IGH_Param and takes care of
quite a lot of the nasty bits. Here's a list of things GH_Param(Of T) will
happily do for you that you would otherwise have to do yourself:

  * It will create default Attributes in case the parameter is floating.
  * It will manage and synch the source and recipient lists.
  * It can parse network topology to figure out dependency relationships.
  * It will create, restore and clean proxy sources used during IO operations.
  * It knows how to disassociate itself from adjacent objects in a network.
  * It will provide getters and settings for typical parameter properties.
  * It knows how to apply DataMapping algorithms to local data.
  * It can handsomely format local data for display in tooltips.
  * It will maintain a GH_Structure(Of T) for local data storage.
  * It provides methods to cast data into the local type.
  * It will accurately measure the time it takes to collect and process data.
  * It knows how to collect and interweave data from multiple sources.
  * It will correctly populate parameter pop-up menus.
  * It will provide the correct StateTags for DataMapping settings.
  * It will (de)serialize all local properties.

In other words, _do not implement IGH_Param but derive from GH_Param(Of T)!_

![](../icons/SectionExpanded.png)Types of Parameters

As mentioned before, parameters can be encountered as component inputs or
outputs, but also as free-floating objects. These are not different classes,
but rather the same class behaving in different ways. Every instance of
IGH_Param has a [Kind](P_Grasshopper_Kernel_IGH_Param_Kind.htm) readonly
property which describes the context of that instance:

![](../media/ParameterKinds.png)

In the image above, we see all three valid parameter Kinds (Input, Output and
Floating). The "bool" object is a floating parameter of type Param_Boolean.
The "P" on the left side of the "Cull" component is an input parameter of that
very same type.

The Text Panel is also a floating parameter which derives from GH_Param(Of
GH_String). In a way it is very similar to the String parameter (not shown),
except it overrides the display and GUI of the default GH_Param class. The "L"
on the right of the "Cull" component is an output parameter of the
Param_GenericObject type (just like the "L" input parameter).

From this image we can see how versatile parameters can be. Parameters can
have wildly different front-ends, they can expose and hide input and output
grips at will, they can be part of a larger component or stand by themselves.
They can even override so much of the default functionality that they no
longer appear to be parameters at all (like the cluster output attached to
"L").

![](../icons/SectionExpanded.png)Data inside Parameters

All parameters have the capacity to store data, this is, after all, their
primary function. When you derive from
[GH_ParamT](T_Grasshopper_Kernel_GH_Param_1.htm) there will be a protected
member available within the class called m_data of type
[GH_StructureT](T_Grasshopper_Kernel_Data_GH_Structure_1.htm). Since
GH_Structure(Of T) only accepts types of T that implement IGH_Goo, GH_Param(Of
T) also only accepts types for T that implement IGH_Goo. This is why you
cannot have a GH_Param(Of Integer) but must instead have GH_Param(Of
GH_Integer).

Data stored inside the m_data field is destroyed whenever the parameter
expires. Parameters can be expired via several different mechanisms, but the
most common ones are:

  * One or more of the sources of a parameter expires.
  * The component that owns the parameter expires.
  * The user forces a complete solution recalculation (F5).

Because the data gets destroyed so readily, we call it _Volatile Data_. A lot
of parameters in Grasshopper are also capable of storing _Persistent Data_ ,
which is not destroyed whenever a solution runs. This allows parameters to
define a collection of 'constant' values. The "Set One XXXX", "Set Multiple
XXXX" and "Manage XXXX Collection" menu items in the parameter pop-up menu
refer to persistent data.

When a parameter is not connected to any source parameters, the persistent
data will be copied into the volatile data. If there is no persistent data,
the parameter will remain empty and a runtime warning will be included to this
effect.

GH_Param(Of T) however does not support persistent data. You can add your own
mechanism for this (like Text Panel does) or you can choose to derive from
more advanced classes like
[GH_PersistentParamT](T_Grasshopper_Kernel_GH_PersistentParam_1.htm). In this
example, we'll derive from GH_PersistentParam(Of T) as we want to give users
the ability to specify local data. GH_PersistentParam(Of T) requires we
implement two additional methods that allow users to specify persistent data.
These methods are called from the default popup menu when the "Set One XXXX"
and "Set Multiple XXXX" items are clicked.

So let's start with deriving from GH_PersistentParam(Of T) and see where that
takes us:

VB

Copy

    
    
    Public Class TriStateParameter
      Inherits GH_PersistentParam(Of TriStateType)
    
      'We need to supply a constructor without arguments that calls the base class constructor.
      Public Sub New()
        'This is where we specify the name, description, tab and panel of this parameter.
        MyBase.New("TriState", "Tri", "Represents a collection of TriState values", "Params", "Primitive")
      End Sub
    
      Public Overrides ReadOnly Property ComponentGuid() As System.Guid
        Get
          'Always generate a new Guid, but never change it once you've released this parameter to the public.
          Return New Guid("{2FEEF1A2-A764-431d-8C78-9BF92C78BAE1}")
        End Get
      End Property
    
      Protected Overrides Function Prompt_Singular(ByRef value As TriStateType) As Kernel.GH_GetterResult
        'Todo, impement this function.
      End Function
      Protected Overrides Function Prompt_Plural(ByRef values As System.Collections.Generic.List(Of TriStateType)) As Kernel.GH_GetterResult
        'Todo, impement this function.
      End Function
    End Class

That is essentially all there's to it. Though you should also provide an
[Icon](P_Grasshopper_Kernel_GH_DocumentObject_Icon.htm) and an
[Exposure](P_Grasshopper_Kernel_IGH_DocumentObject_Exposure.htm) for this
object. The Prompt_Singular and Promt_Plural methods need to be implemented.
In this case we'll use standard Rhino Command Line interface to prompt for
persistent values:

VB

Copy

    
    
    Protected Overrides Function Prompt_Singular(ByRef value As TriStateType) As Kernel.GH_GetterResult
      Dim go As New Rhino.Input.Custom.GetOption()
      go.SetCommandPrompt("TriState value")
      go.AcceptNothing(True)
      go.AddOption("True")
      go.AddOption("False")
      go.AddOption("Unknown")
    
      Select Case go.Get()
        Case Rhino.Input.GetResult.Option
          If (go.Option().EnglishName = "True") Then value = New TriStateType(1)
          If (go.Option().EnglishName = "False") Then value = New TriStateType(0)
          If (go.Option().EnglishName = "Unknown") Then value = New TriStateType(-1)
          Return GH_GetterResult.success
    
        Case Rhino.Input.GetResult.Nothing
          Return GH_GetterResult.accept
    
        Case Else
          Return GH_GetterResult.cancel
      End Select
    End Function
    
    Protected Overrides Function Prompt_Plural(ByRef values As List(Of TriStateType)) As Kernel.GH_GetterResult
      values = New List(Of TriStateType)
    
      Do
        Dim val As TriStateType = Nothing
        Select Case Prompt_Singular(val)
          Case GH_GetterResult.success
            values.Add(val)
    
          Case GH_GetterResult.accept
            Return GH_GetterResult.success
    
          Case GH_GetterResult.cancel
            values = Nothing
            Return GH_GetterResult.cancel
        End Select
      Loop
    End Function

Grasshopper for Rhino 8.22.25217.12450 (2025-08-05)  
Copyright © 2009-2025 Robert McNeel & Associates

[Report wishes and bugs at
discourse.mcneel.com](https://discourse.mcneel.com/c/grasshopper)

