---
url: https://developer.rhino3d.com/api/grasshopper/html/99f64b89-5975-4ebe-adc6-24da038e915f.htm#!
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T16:25:02.500972
title: Untitled
---

Grasshopper API

[Grasshopper API](../html/723c01da-9986-4db2-8f53-6f3a7494df75.htm
"Grasshopper API")

[Development](../html/8b9acc0a-5165-4427-aea5-1873faffb4ff.htm "Development")

[GHA Assembly Wizards](../html/d5ac95cc-3592-49a7-9162-d1bd981fb6c5.htm "GHA
Assembly Wizards")

[Assembly Hierarchy](../html/bc188193-19ff-4ae5-a3ed-2e78c34a306e.htm
"Assembly Hierarchy")

[Project Setup (VB.NET)](../html/99f64b89-5975-4ebe-adc6-24da038e915f.htm
"Project Setup \(VB.NET\)")

[Project Setup (C#)](../html/f00ac74b-492c-44fe-8da3-b28265dc820f.htm "Project
Setup \(C#\)")

[Project Setup (VS.Express)](../html/71bed5cf-25c6-4d89-b50a-cff22efbda62.htm
"Project Setup \(VS.Express\)")

![Click or drag to resize](../icons/TocOpen.gif)![Click or drag to
resize](../icons/TocClose.gif)

# Project Setup (VB.NET)  
  
---  
  
Grasshopper Component Library Project Setup in VB.NET

**Please note that we now have[Assembly Wizards for
Grasshopper](d5ac95cc-3592-49a7-9162-d1bd981fb6c5.htm) and it is no longer
necessary to manually create a GHA project in Visual Studio.**

This topic outlines all the steps required to create a new project in _VB.NET_
which will create a Grasshopper Component Library. If you are using _VB.NET
Express_ , some of these steps will differ since the Express version does not
expose a UI for all these settings.

### Creating a new Project

  1. Start Visual Studio and create a new project via the File menu.

![](../media/Separator_20Pixels_FullAlpha.png)

  2. In the _Project types_ tree, navigate towards the _Visual Basic_ root node. Make sure the Target Framework is 3.5 and select the _Class Library_ type:

![](../media/VB_Pro_NewProject.png)

![](../media/Separator_20Pixels_FullAlpha.png)

![](../media/Separator_20Pixels_FullAlpha.png)

  3. A new, empty project will now be created. Before this project becomes a valid Grasshopper Component Library, we have to add all the required Assembly References. Navigate towards your Project Properties (double click on "My Project" in the Solution Browser for example), open up the References tab and make sure the list includes the assemblies listed below.

Careful! When adding Assembly Reference, the default Visual Studio behaviour
is to tag them as _CopyLocal=True_. This is wrong. So very wrong. Set the Copy
Local tag of GH_IO, Grasshopper and RhinoCommon to _False_ before you press
the Compile button for the first time.

![](../media/VB_Pro_References.png)

Note that the folder locations for RhinoCommon, Grasshopper and GH_IO will
differ depending on installation.

Assembly| Probable location  
---|---  
GH_IO.dll|  _< Program Files>\Rhinoceros 4.0\Plug-ins\Grasshopper\_  
Grasshopper.dll|  _< Program Files>\Rhinoceros 4.0\Plug-ins\Grasshopper\_  
RhinoCommon.dll|  _< Program Files>\Rhinoceros 4.0\Plug-
ins\Grasshopper\rh_common\_  
  
![](../media/Separator_20Pixels_FullAlpha.png)

![](../media/Separator_20Pixels_FullAlpha.png)

  4. By default, a Visual Studio project has two build 'flavours'; DEBUG and RELEASE. Debug builds are not optimized by the compiler so the instructions that eventually get executed are very similar to the source code. Release builds do get optimized, which usually results in a slightly better performance (and occasionally vastly superior performance), but it can be very confusing to try and debug a Release version.

Debug and Release builds are written into different folders (usually
_..\Bin\Debug\_ and _..\Bin\Release\_ ), which is a very useful feature when
writing stand-alone application, but it is outright confusing when your
application is loaded by another program. We advice that you alter the build
folders so that both Debug and Release builds are stored in the same location.
This way there can be no confusion about which build you are loading. If you
have VB Express, then you will not be able to adjust the build locations
through the Visual Studio interface. [See this topic on how to solve this with
Visual Studio
Express.](71bed5cf-25c6-4d89-b50a-cff22efbda62.htm#ManualConfigurationMerge)

In Project Properties, go to the Compile tab, switch the Configuration filter
to _All Configurations_ and set the _Build output path:_ to _Bin\_ :

![](../media/VB_Pro_BuildOutput.png)

![](../media/Separator_20Pixels_FullAlpha.png)

![](../media/Separator_20Pixels_FullAlpha.png)

  5. When you override the default build folder destinations, both DEBUG and RELEASE flavours will end up in the same location. However, the file type of the compiled Class Library is still dll. Even though this is the correct file type for a Grasshopper Component Library, you must change the extension before Grasshopper will consider loading the library. You can automatically rename the compiled dll using a Post-Build Event. Once again, if you have VB Express you will not be able to add an event via the Visual Studio UI. [See this topic on how to solve this with Visual Studio Express.](71bed5cf-25c6-4d89-b50a-cff22efbda62.htm#ManualPostBuildEvents)

On the _Compile_ tab of the Project Properties you will find a button that
provides access to the Build Events. Open up the Build Events dialog and add
the following macro to the _Post-build event command line_ :

Copy "$(TargetPath)" "$(TargetDir)\$(ProjectName).gha"

Erase "$(TargetPath)"

![](../media/CS_Pro_PostBuildEvents.png)

![](../media/Separator_20Pixels_FullAlpha.png)

![](../media/Separator_20Pixels_FullAlpha.png)

  6. You are now finished with the project setup for Grasshopper Component Libraries. When you compile your new project, the contents of the build folder should be:

![](../media/VB_Pro_BuildFolderContent.png)

![](../media/Separator_20Pixels_FullAlpha.png)

![](../icons/SectionExpanded.png)See Also

#### Other Resources

Loading and debugging custom Component Libraries.

Grasshopper for Rhino 8.22.25217.12450 (2025-08-05)  
Copyright Â© 2009-2025 Robert McNeel & Associates

[Report wishes and bugs at
discourse.mcneel.com](https://discourse.mcneel.com/c/grasshopper)

