---
url: https://developer.rhino3d.com/api/grasshopper/html/T_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant.htm
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T16:19:42.175368
title: Untitled
---

Grasshopper API

[Grasshopper API](../html/723c01da-9986-4db2-8f53-6f3a7494df75.htm
"Grasshopper API")

[Grasshopper.Kernel.Expressions](../html/N_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions.htm
"Grasshopper.Kernel.Expressions")

[GH_ScriptVariant
Class](../html/T_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant.htm
"GH_ScriptVariant Class")

[GH_ScriptVariant Constructor
](../html/Overload_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant__ctor.htm
"GH_ScriptVariant Constructor ")

[GH_ScriptVariant
Properties](../html/Properties_T_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant.htm
"GH_ScriptVariant Properties")

[GH_ScriptVariant
Methods](../html/Methods_T_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant.htm
"GH_ScriptVariant Methods")

[GH_ScriptVariant Operators and Type
Conversions](../html/Operators_T_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant.htm
"GH_ScriptVariant Operators and Type Conversions")

[GH_ScriptVariant
Fields](../html/Fields_T_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant.htm
"GH_ScriptVariant Fields")

![Click or drag to resize](../icons/TocOpen.gif)![Click or drag to
resize](../icons/TocClose.gif)

# GH_ScriptVariant Class  
  
---  
  
![](../icons/SectionExpanded.png)Inheritance Hierarchy

[SystemObject](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.object)  
Grasshopper.Kernel.ExpressionsGH_ScriptVariant  

**Namespace:**
[Grasshopper.Kernel.Expressions](N_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions.htm)  
**Assembly:** Grasshopper (in Grasshopper.dll)

![](../icons/SectionExpanded.png)Syntax

C#

VB

Copy

    
    
    public class GH_ScriptVariant
    
    
    Public Class GH_ScriptVariant

The GH_ScriptVariant type exposes the following members.

![](../icons/SectionExpanded.png)Constructors

| Name| Description  
---|---|---  
![Public method](../icons/pubmethod.gif)|
[GH_ScriptVariant](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant__ctor.htm)|
Initializes a new instance of the GH_ScriptVariant class  
![Public method](../icons/pubmethod.gif)|
[GH_ScriptVariant(Boolean)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant__ctor_4.htm)|
Initializes a new instance of the GH_ScriptVariant class  
![Public method](../icons/pubmethod.gif)|
[GH_ScriptVariant(Byte)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant__ctor_5.htm)|
Initializes a new instance of the GH_ScriptVariant class  
![Public method](../icons/pubmethod.gif)|
[GH_ScriptVariant(DateTime)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant__ctor_6.htm)|
Initializes a new instance of the GH_ScriptVariant class  
![Public method](../icons/pubmethod.gif)|
[GH_ScriptVariant(Double)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant__ctor_7.htm)|
Initializes a new instance of the GH_ScriptVariant class  
![Public method](../icons/pubmethod.gif)|
[GH_ScriptVariant(Int32)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant__ctor_8.htm)|
Initializes a new instance of the GH_ScriptVariant class  
![Public method](../icons/pubmethod.gif)|
[GH_ScriptVariant(Plane)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant__ctor_1.htm)|
Initializes a new instance of the GH_ScriptVariant class  
![Public method](../icons/pubmethod.gif)|
[GH_ScriptVariant(Point3d)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant__ctor_2.htm)|
Initializes a new instance of the GH_ScriptVariant class  
![Public method](../icons/pubmethod.gif)|
[GH_ScriptVariant(String)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant__ctor_9.htm)|
Initializes a new instance of the GH_ScriptVariant class  
![Public method](../icons/pubmethod.gif)|
[GH_ScriptVariant(Vector3d)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant__ctor_3.htm)|
Initializes a new instance of the GH_ScriptVariant class  
Top

![](../icons/SectionExpanded.png)Properties

| Name| Description  
---|---|---  
![Public property](../icons/pubproperty.gif)|
[Boolean](P_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_Boolean.htm)|  
![Public property](../icons/pubproperty.gif)|
[DateTime](P_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_DateTime.htm)|  
![Public property](../icons/pubproperty.gif)|
[Double](P_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_Double.htm)|  
![Public property](../icons/pubproperty.gif)|
[Integer](P_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_Integer.htm)|  
![Public property](../icons/pubproperty.gif)|
[Object](P_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_Object.htm)|  
![Public property](../icons/pubproperty.gif)|
[Plane](P_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_Plane.htm)|  
![Public property](../icons/pubproperty.gif)|
[Point](P_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_Point.htm)|  
![Public property](../icons/pubproperty.gif)|
[String](P_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_String.htm)|  
![Public property](../icons/pubproperty.gif)|
[Type](P_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_Type.htm)|  
![Public property](../icons/pubproperty.gif)|
[Vector](P_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_Vector.htm)|  
Top

![](../icons/SectionExpanded.png)Methods

| Name| Description  
---|---|---  
![Protected method](../icons/protmethod.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[ThrowNullOperatorException](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_ThrowNullOperatorException.htm)|  
![Protected method](../icons/protmethod.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [ThrowOperatorException(String,
GH_ScriptVariantType)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_ThrowOperatorException.htm)|  
![Protected method](../icons/protmethod.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [ThrowOperatorException(String,
String)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_ThrowOperatorException_2.htm)|  
![Protected method](../icons/protmethod.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [ThrowOperatorException(String,
GH_ScriptVariantType,
GH_ScriptVariantType)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_ThrowOperatorException_1.htm)|  
![Protected method](../icons/protmethod.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [ThrowOperatorException(String, String,
String)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_ThrowOperatorException_3.htm)|  
![Public method](../icons/pubmethod.gif)|
[ToString](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_ToString.htm)|
(Overrides
[ObjectToString](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.object.tostring#system-
object-tostring).)  
Top

![](../icons/SectionExpanded.png)Operators

| Name| Description  
---|---|---  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[Addition](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Addition.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[BitwiseAnd](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_BitwiseAnd.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[BitwiseOr](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_BitwiseOr.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[Concatenate](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Concatenate.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[Division](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Division.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[Equality](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Equality.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[ExclusiveOr](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_ExclusiveOr.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [(GH_ScriptVariant to
Plane)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Explicit_7.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [(GH_ScriptVariant to
Point3d)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Explicit_5.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [(GH_ScriptVariant to
Vector3d)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Explicit_6.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [(GH_ScriptVariant to
Boolean)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Explicit.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [(GH_ScriptVariant to
DateTime)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Explicit_4.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [(GH_ScriptVariant to
Double)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Explicit_2.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [(GH_ScriptVariant to
Int32)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Explicit_1.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [(GH_ScriptVariant to
String)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Explicit_3.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[Exponent](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Exponent.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[False](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_False.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[GreaterThan](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_GreaterThan.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[GreaterThanOrEqual](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_GreaterThanOrEqual.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [(Boolean to
GH_ScriptVariant)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Implicit_3.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [(DateTime to
GH_ScriptVariant)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Implicit_4.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [(Double to
GH_ScriptVariant)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Implicit_5.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [(Int32 to
GH_ScriptVariant)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Implicit_6.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [(Plane to
GH_ScriptVariant)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Implicit.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [(Point3d to
GH_ScriptVariant)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Implicit_1.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [(String to
GH_ScriptVariant)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Implicit_7.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)| [(Vector3d to
GH_ScriptVariant)](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Implicit_2.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[Inequality](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Inequality.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[IntegerDivision](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_IntegerDivision.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[LeftShift](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_LeftShift.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[LessThan](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_LessThan.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[LessThanOrEqual](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_LessThanOrEqual.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[Modulus](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Modulus.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[Multiply](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Multiply.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[OnesComplement](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_OnesComplement.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[RightShift](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_RightShift.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[Subtraction](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_Subtraction.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[True](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_True.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[UnaryNegation](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_UnaryNegation.htm)|  
![Public operator](../icons/puboperator.gif)![Static
member](../icons/static.gif)|
[UnaryPlus](M_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_op_UnaryPlus.htm)|  
Top

![](../icons/SectionExpanded.png)Fields

| Name| Description  
---|---|---  
![Protected field](../icons/protfield.gif)|
[m_type](F_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_m_type.htm)|  
![Protected field](../icons/protfield.gif)|
[m_value](F_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions_GH_ScriptVariant_m_value.htm)|  
Top

![](../icons/SectionExpanded.png)See Also

#### Reference

[Grasshopper.Kernel.Expressions
Namespace](N_Grasshopper_Kernel_Expressions.htm)

Grasshopper for Rhino 8.22.25217.12450 (2025-08-05)  
Copyright © 2009-2025 Robert McNeel & Associates

[Report wishes and bugs at
discourse.mcneel.com](https://discourse.mcneel.com/c/grasshopper)

