---
url: https://freecad.github.io/SourceDoc/index.html
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T14:51:07.558320
title: Untitled
---

  * [ ![](https://www.freecad.org/svg/logo-freecad.svg) ](https://freecadweb.org "FreeCAD")
  * [Index](index.html "Index")
  * [Modules](modules.html "Modules list")
  * [Classes](annotated.html "Annotated list")

FreeCAD source documentation

This is the source documentation of [FreeCAD](https://www.freecadweb.org). It
is automatically generated from the source code, and describes the different
components of the FreeCAD source code, for both the parts written in C++ and
Python.

For general help and documentation about the FreeCAD application and how to
use it, head first to the [Wiki
Documentation](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki).

Refer to the [general introduction to the FreeCAD source
code](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/The_FreeCAD_source_code) page for a
broad view of how the source code is organized, and browse the modules,
classes and namespaces from the menu above.

The [Developers section](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Developer_hub) of the
wiki also contains additional information for developers, and the [Powerusers
/ python scripting section](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Power_users_hub)
contains coding documentation that is specifically aimed at python scripting,
but that will also be useful to C++ coders, as most of the APIs are identical
or very similar.

For space reasons, this on-line version doesn't include the source code
headers nor the full inheritance graphics. But you can build a full version
yourself with everything included, as explained in [building the source code
documentation](https://freecadweb.org/wiki/Source_documentation). You can also
browse through the [source code on
github](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD).

Built from git branch docs , commit 0d61c6a72b Fri, 15 Jul 2022 16:16:14 +0200
'[Doc] Migrate BuildWebDoc.cfg.in to doxygen 1.9.4'

* * *

Generated by [![doxygen](doxygen.svg)](https://www.doxygen.org/index.html)
1.9.4

