---
url: https://developer.rhino3d.com/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T16:06:14.560933
title: Rhino.UI namespace
---

[_home_](/api/rhinocommon/)

/

Rhino.UI

# Rhino.UI namespace

  
 _Derived Classes:_

_keyboard_arrow_down_

Child Namespaces

[**Rhino.UI.Controls**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.controls)[**Rhino.UI.Gumball**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.gumball)

[**CursorStyle** Standard mouse cursors in
Rhino](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.cursorstyle)[**Dialogs**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.dialogs)[**DistanceDisplayMode**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.distancedisplaymode)[**DrawingUtilities**
RhinoCommon Drawing
Utilities](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.drawingutilities)[**Fonts**
Rhino.Rumtime.UI](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.fonts)[**Fonts.Size** Size for UI
font.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.fonts.size)[**Fonts.Style** Style for UI
font.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.fonts.style)[**GetColorEventArgs**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.getcoloreventargs)[**IDialogService**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.idialogservice)[**IHelp**
Implement this class to add help to a modeless UI
panel.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.ihelp)[**ILocalizationService**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.ilocalizationservice)[**IPanel**
Implement this interface when you want to be notified of when a panel is
shown, hidden or closed.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.ipanel)[**IPanelsService**
For internal use, the IPanels service is implemented in RhinoWindows or
RhinoMac as appropriate and handles the communication with core
Rhino](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.ipanelsservice)[**IRhinoUiDialogService**
Used by Rhino.UI.Dialogs to access generic Eto dialogs from Rhino
Common](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.irhinouidialogservice)[**IStackedDialogPageService**
For internal use, the IStackedDialogPageService service is implemented in
RhinoWindows or RhinoMac as appropriate and handles the communication with
core
Rhino](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.istackeddialogpageservice)[**KeyboardKey**
Keyboard key recognized by
shortcuts](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.keyboardkey)[**LOC** Used a placeholder
which is used by LocalizationProcessor application to create contextId mapped
localized
strings.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.loc)[**Localization**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.localization)[**LocalizeStringPair**
Pair of strings used for
localization.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.localizestringpair)[**ModifierKey**
Keyboard keys typically used in combination with other
keys](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.modifierkey)[**MouseButton**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.mousebutton)[**MouseCallback**
Used for intercepting mouse events in the Rhino
views.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.mousecallback)[**MouseCallbackEventArgs**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.mousecallbackeventargs)[**MouseCursor**
Contains static methods to control the mouse
icon.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.mousecursor)[**NamedColor** An entry with
name and color for the
<b>NamedColorList</b>](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.namedcolor)[**NamedColorList**
A list of color name/value
pairs.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.namedcolorlist)[**ObjectPropertiesPage**
Base class used to add object property user interface
panels](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.objectpropertiespage)[**ObjectPropertiesPageCollection**
Passed to Rhino.PlugIns.PlugIn.ObjectPropertiesPages to allow a plug-in to add
custom ObjectPropertiesPage pages to the Rhino properties
panel.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.objectpropertiespagecollection)[**ObjectPropertiesPageEventArgs**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.objectpropertiespageeventargs)[**OpenFileDialog**
Similar to the System.Windows.Forms.OpenFileDialog, but with customized Rhino
user
interface.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.openfiledialog)[**OptionPageButtons**
Standard
IRhinoOptionsPageButton](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.optionpagebuttons)[**OptionsDialogPage**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.optionsdialogpage)[**OptionsDialogPage.PageType**
17 March 2021 John Morse For internal use in determining the page type.
RhinoMac uses this to ensure pages are sized properly when hosting
them.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.optionsdialogpage.pagetype)[**PanelEventArgs**
Panels.Show event
arguments](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.paneleventargs)[**PanelIds** Standard
Rhino panel ids.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.panelids)[**Panels** Access to
Rhino panels and register custom
panels](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.panels)[**Panels.FloatPanelMode** Used by
the FloatPanel method to determine if the floating panel should be shown or
hidden.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.panels.floatpanelmode)[**PanelType** Panel
type](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.paneltype)[**PropertyPageType**
IRhinoProperties page
type](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.propertypagetype)[**RhinoGetPlotWidthArgs**
Argument flags passed to methods used to get Rhino plot width
lists](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.rhinogetplotwidthargs)[**RhinoHelp** Provides
access to the built in Rhino help
system](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.rhinohelp)[**RhinoPageInterop** For internal
use only, provides access to unmanaged core
Rhino.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.rhinopageinterop)[**RhinoPlotWidthType**
Supported plot width special
types](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.rhinoplotwidthtype)[**RhinoPlotWidthValue**
Default width values used by UI objects to represent different
states](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.rhinoplotwidthvalue)[**RuiUpdateUi**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.ruiupdateui)[**SaveFileDialog**
Similar to the System.Windows.Forms.SaveFileDialog, but with customized Rhino
user
interface.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.savefiledialog)[**ShowMessageButton**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.showmessagebutton)[**ShowMessageDefaultButton**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.showmessagedefaultbutton)[**ShowMessageIcon**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.showmessageicon)[**ShowMessageMode**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.showmessagemode)[**ShowMessageOptions**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.showmessageoptions)[**ShowMessageResult**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.showmessageresult)[**ShowPanelEventArgs**
Panels.Show event
arguments](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.showpaneleventargs)[**ShowPanelReason**
OnShowDockbar event
type](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.showpanelreason)[**StackedDialogPage** Base
class to inherit from for the addition of stacked dialog
pages.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.stackeddialogpage)[**StatusBar** Contains
static methods to control the application status
bar.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.statusbar)[**Toolbar** Represents a toolbar in
a Rhino toolbar, or .RUI,
file.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.toolbar)[**ToolbarFile** Represents a Rhino
toolbar, or .RUI,
file.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.toolbarfile)[**ToolbarFileCollection**
Represents a collection of Rhino toolbars, or .RUI,
files.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.toolbarfilecollection)[**ToolbarGroup**
Represents a toolbar group in a Rhino toolbar, or .RUI,
file.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.toolbargroup)[**WaitCursor**](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.waitcursor)[**UpdateMenuItemEventHandler**
Menu item update
delegate](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.updatemenuitemeventhandler)[**OnColorChangedEvent**
May be optionally passed to ShowColorDialog and will get called when the color
value changes in the color
dialog.](/api/rhinocommon/rhino.ui.oncolorchangedevent)

