---
url: https://cad.onshape.com/FsDoc/computed-part-properties.html
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T14:26:01.303616
title: Untitled
---

[FeatureScript](index.html)

[Welcome to FeatureScript](index.html)

  * [_Tutorials_](tutorials/create-a-slot-feature.html)
  * [ _Standard Library documentation_](library.html)
  * [ _Standard Library source_](/documents/12312312345abcabcabcdeff)

[FeatureScript guide](intro.html)

  * [Introduction](intro.html)
  * [Defining feature types](feature-types.html)
  * [Feature UI](uispec.html)
  * [Feature output](output.html)
  * [Values and types](variables.html)
  * [Modeling](modeling.html)
  * [Custom tables](tables.html)
  * [Computed part properties](computed-part-properties.html)
  * [Imports](imports.html)
  * [Debugging in Feature Studios](debugging-in-feature-studios.html)

[Language reference](tokens.html)

  * [Lexical conventions](tokens.html)
  * [Types and type tags](type-tags.html)
  * [Top-level constructs](top-level.html)
  * [Syntax and semantics](syntax.html)
  * [Annotations](annotations.html)
  * [Exception handling](exceptions.html)
  * [Equality and ordering](relational.html)

# Computed part properties

Computed part properties are properties whose values are computed using
FeatureScript functions. These properties are available wherever Part
properties are available, like BOMs and drawings. Rather than being manually
set to a static value, they are computed from a custom FeatureScript function.
The FeatureScript function can compute the property value with access the full
Part Studio context, including geometry of the Part, its attributes, its non-
computed properties, and Part Studio variables.

Standard computed part properties like Mass are available to everyone, while
custom computed part properties you define can be made available to your
company.

## Defining computed part properties

The following sections provide a step by step guide to creating, testing, and
using computed part properties.

### Define the property function

Property functions can be defined in any Feature Studio, though it may be
useful to create a separate document for your company's property functions.

The following FeatureScript snippet defines a simple property function that
will compute the volume of a part.

    
    
    annotation { "Property Function Name" : "computeVolume" }
    export const computeVolume = defineComputedPartProperty(
                 function(context is Context, part is Query, definition is map) returns ValueWithUnits
        {
            return evVolume(context, { "entities" : part });
        });
    

The import `onshape/std/common.fs` has everything you typically need for
defining property functions. Importing `geometry.fs` by property function
Feature Studios is discouraged for performance reasons.

The `Property Function Name` annotation and the use of
`defineComputedPropertyFunction` identify the function as a computed part
property function. Both are essential. When you start to type `defineComputed`
in the FeatureScript editor, you can autocomplete to a template for your
property function.

Computed part property functions must specify a FeatureScript return type,
which must be one of:

  * `string`
  * `number`
  * `boolean`
  * `ValueWithUnits`

Your property functions have access to the full power of FeatureScript: all
geometry of the part, and all FeatureScript functionality from the Onshape
Standard Library or other Feature Studios, including access to non-computed
properties using the `getProperty()` function. Computed part property
functions cannot use other computed part properties using `getProperty()`, but
they can call other functions including other property functions.

### Test the property function

Onshape generates custom tables for your computed part property functions that
you can use in the same workspace in which you define the property functions.
To use this feature, create some parts in a Part Studio in the same workspace,
and then select the appropriate custom table from the custom tables tab.

![Feature studio showing generated custom tables](tutorials/images/computed-
part-properties-custom-tables.png)

If there are errors, they will appear in the `FeatureScript notices` (`{!}`)
in the Part Studio. If that happens, you can monitor the Part Studio from the
Feature Studio where you defined the property functions, and fix the errors
from there.

Outside of this workflow, runtime errors in computed property functions are
not visible in the `FeatureScript notices` to users viewing the properties.
Thus, it is generally not recommended to throw errors inside custom property
functions, or to leave errors in called functions uncaught, even in cases
where the property is clearly not applicable.

### Create a document version

Property functions are versioned by the document version of their Feature
Studio, so you need to commit the Feature Studio and create a document version
to refer to the version you want from your custom property.

Don't forget to create a new document version when you change your property
functions, and then edit the custom property in your company's setting to use
the new version.

### Define the custom property

Custom computed part properties are defined like other custom properties in
the custom properties section of your company settings. In order to associate
a custom property with a property function, making it into a computed part
property, the following are required:

  * The property type must be one of `Text`, `Double`, `Boolean`, or `Value with units`, corresponding to the FeatureScript types listed above.
  * The property's categories must include `Part`.
  * The property will need to be active in order to use it.

Note that the `Edit value in workspace` and `Edit value in version` checkboxes
affect when a computed part property can be overridden. The default is for it
to be computed.

When the above conditions are met, a `Computed part properties` section
appears in the property details form. From there, you can select a property
function by document, version, feature studio, and function name. You can use
the features of the selection dialog to navigate to other documents and
versions as needed.

![Property details showing function selection
dialog](tutorials/images/computed-part-properties-select-function.png)

Once a property function has been selected, the `Property function source`
field will contain a link that will open the right version of the feature
studio in a new tab.

## Using computed part properties

### Using computed part properties in the properties dialog

Computed part properties are included in the properties dialog when you
request properties for parts. Computed properties have a script _f_ after
their names, and will also have an `Override` checkbox if they can be
overridden in the properties dialog.

![Properties dialog showing computed part
properties](tutorials/images/computed-part-properties-metadata-dialog.png)

To override a computed value, check the `Override` checkbox and enter the
override value. To remove an override and use the computed value, uncheck the
`Override` checkbox. When removing an override, the dialog will display
_Computed_ until you click `Apply`, and then the computed value will be
computed and displayed.

### Using computed part properties in a bill of materials

You can add computed part properties to a bill of materials using the `Add
column` dropdown. You can override computed part properties in the BOM by
editing the cells. If a table cell contains an override, it will display a
hover tooltip indicating that it is an overridden computed property. You can
remove the override using the `Remove override` context menu item from the
table cell.

Adding computed part properties to a bill of materials will increase the time
required to display the table if previously computed values are not available
in a runtime cache.

### Using computed part properties in configured part properties

You can add computed part properties to the configured properties table in a
part studio using the `Add property` dropdown. Similar to a bill of materials,
you can provide configuration specific values for computed properties by
editing their values in the table. You can also remove a configured value from
a table cell using the `Remove configured value` context menu from the table
cell.

Table cells for computed part properties that do not have configured override
values display `Computed` rather than the actual computed values because
computing property values for multiple configurations is computationally
expensive.

  *[API]: Application Programming Interface
  *[TL;DR]: Too long; didn't read.

