---
url: https://cad.onshape.com/FsDoc/debugging-in-feature-studios.html
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T14:26:03.447942
title: Untitled
---

[FeatureScript](index.html)

[Welcome to FeatureScript](index.html)

  * [_Tutorials_](tutorials/create-a-slot-feature.html)
  * [ _Standard Library documentation_](library.html)
  * [ _Standard Library source_](/documents/12312312345abcabcabcdeff)

[FeatureScript guide](intro.html)

  * [Introduction](intro.html)
  * [Defining feature types](feature-types.html)
  * [Feature UI](uispec.html)
  * [Feature output](output.html)
  * [Values and types](variables.html)
  * [Modeling](modeling.html)
  * [Custom tables](tables.html)
  * [Computed part properties](computed-part-properties.html)
  * [Imports](imports.html)
  * [Debugging in Feature Studios](debugging-in-feature-studios.html)

[Language reference](tokens.html)

  * [Lexical conventions](tokens.html)
  * [Types and type tags](type-tags.html)
  * [Top-level constructs](top-level.html)
  * [Syntax and semantics](syntax.html)
  * [Annotations](annotations.html)
  * [Exception handling](exceptions.html)
  * [Equality and ordering](relational.html)

# Debugging in Feature Studios

When creating and editing custom features, it's important to have continuous
feedback about what your feature is doing, and, often, why it's breaking. This
feedback comes from two sources: **FeatureScript analysis** , which gives
static information, and **FeatureScript execution** , which gives runtime
information.

## FeatureScript analysis

Analysis is run as you type in any Feature Studio in Onshape. It serves to
statically process FeatureScript before it is executed, and provides inline
feedback including:

  * Parse errors for code that does not match FeatureScript's grammar
  * Semantic warnings for e.g. a variable or function call name that doesn't match anything visibly defined
  * Precondition analysis warnings for a feature precondition that doesn't properly specify the [feature UI](uispec.html)
  * Documentation extracted from source comments and shown when hovering on symbols

![Analysis parse error](tutorials/images/analsysis-parse-error.png) ![Analysis
hover documentation](tutorials/images/analysis-hover-doc.png)

NOTE

Analysis is run on FeatureScript without waiting for a commit. This means
analysis information relates to the current text in a Feature Studio, not the
committed version.

## FeatureScript execution

Execution, or "running" FeatureScript code, always begins in a Part Studio. As
described in [Defining feature types](feature-types.html), modifying a Part
Studio causes the changed feature, and everything after it, to be executed
again (or "regenerated"). Committing a change to a custom feature's code and
looking at a Part Studio which uses that feature will also trigger
regeneration.

Feedback from FeatureScript execution can greatly aid debugging and includes:

  * Printed [output](output.html) from functions like `print`, `println`, `printTimer`, and `debug`
  * Language runtime [exceptions](exceptions.html) like dereferencing `undefined` or dividing by zero
  * Thrown exceptions (including [regenErrors](library.html#module-error.fs), which appear as infos)

![Execution notices pane](tutorials/images/execution-notices-pane.png)

NOTE

Execution only happens on committed code. This means execution information
always relates to the committed version of a Feature Studio, not the current
text.

The execution information can be seen in the notices pane after switching to
the Part Studio's Onshape tab (or opening it in a new browser tab). However,
to see the information directly in a Feature Studio, and see it update as
you're editing, you will first need to **monitor** a Part Studio.

## Monitoring execution information

You can begin monitoring a Part Studio's execution either by selecting
"Monitor [Part Studio name]" in the Feature Studio's toolbar, or by selecting
"Monitor" next to a Part Studio's notices in the notices pane.

![Monitor from toolbar](tutorials/images/monitor-from-toolbar.png) ![Monitor
from notices pane](tutorials/images/monitor-from-notices-pane.png)

A monitored Part Studio will be re-executed every time the code of a custom
feature it uses is committed. The execution information will then appear in
the Feature Studios whose code is executed:

![Monitoring thrown exception](tutorials/images/monitoring-thrown-
exception.png) ![Monitoring dereference error](tutorials/images/monitoring-
dereference-error.png)

### Type checking

Additionally, when monitoring, execution checks that values with [type
tags](variables.html#type-tags) in the code conform to their typechecks. Any
failures from the typecheck are reported as warnings. To improve performance
during ordinary modelling, these typechecks only ever run on monitored Part
Studios.

With monitor mode's typechecking, the flow of execution does not change. For
example, errors thrown in a typecheck in monitor mode will be shown in the
notices panel, but execution will continue as normal, and overall feature
error status will not be set.

## Profiling regeneration timings

Decreasing the regeneration time of your custom features is an important part
of improving the end user's experience. Fortunately, FeatureScript's design
allows Onshape to determine, at a high resolution, which pieces of code
(divided into **execution steps**) are responsible for what portion of
execution time.

You can view timing data for individual execution steps of a regeneration by
**profiling** a Part Studio. Like monitoring, profiling can be started on any
Part Studio, and will update its results whenever code changes are committed.

Profiling will put hoverable markers on the left-hand side of the code lines
your Feature Studio, containing the timings of all steps whose execution took
longer than 0.1ms.

![Profile data](tutorials/images/profile-data.png)

These markers tell you how many times the code for each step is called, and
the total time taken across all those calls. The markers are colored according
to the total time for that step relative to the regeneration time of the whole
Part Studio (darker, redder colors indicate more time, and lighter, yellower
colors indicate less time).

Additionally, a marker in the upper-left corner shows the total time taken for
the full Part Studio to regenerate. Hovering on it will show a sorted list of
the longest steps from the current Feature Studio.

![Summary marker hover](tutorials/images/meta-marker-hover-menu.png)

Just like when monitoring, the profile data updates automatically when you
commit changes to a Feature Studio used by the profiled Part Studio.

### Profiling tips

A few things to keep in mind while examining your profiling data:

  1. There will always be variability in timings. Timings for individual steps and for the full Part Studio will change slightly up or down between executions for reasons that have nothing to do with code changes.

However, simply switching between Feature Studios in the same document will
show timing data from the same full regeneration in each tab.

  2. If you look at a Feature Studio which was never executed as part of the profiled Part Studio's regeneration, the top-left marker will show the message below. If you were expecting this code to be executed, make sure the relevant custom feature has been created (and confirmed) in the profiled Part Studio.

![No execution steps in this Feature Studio took more than
0.1ms](tutorials/images/no-long-operations-message.png)

  3. The total time in the top left marker represents the time taken to execute the entire Part Studio, including execution of non-custom features. If you include multiple instances of the same feature in a profiled Part Studio, the timings will include calls from all instances of the feature.

  4. Only code which is actually executed will have associated timing data, so, for instance, a branch of an if statement not taken for a certain Part Studio will not yield any timing data.

If your custom feature behaves very differently with different input
parameters, we recommend creating a few Part Studios with different use cases,
and profiling each of them in turn.

  5. Throwing an exception or a regeneration error will cause successive code to not run. If you see your profiling times improving drastically, make sure to check that you haven't simply thrown a runtime error that prevents further execution.

  6. When calling functions defined in the current Feature Studio, profiling will give data for both the full function call (displayed at the call site), and for the steps inside the function (displayed in the function definition). In this case, the total time taken by one Feature Studio will not be a linear sum of all its profiling data (since that would count the inner execution steps twice).

  7. A profiled step can be any node in the FeatureScript's [abstract syntax tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstract_syntax_tree), and the timings represent the total time taken by the FeatureScript interpreter to execute that node. Usually, a node which takes significant time will be a function call, or an operator like `+` or `*`, but occasionally more obscure nodes like variable assignments or large map literals will show up with timings in the profile data.

## Filtering the notices pane

You can filter which notices appear in the notices pane. Click the filter
icon, select a search option, and then type your search term.

You can filter notices by:

  * **:text** = Filter by notice text
  * **:elementid** = Filter by element ID
  * **:tabname** = Only show notices for tab names that match the search string
  * **:currenttab** = Only show notices for the current tab
  * **:minlevel** = Filter by severity level: `info | warn | error`

**Tips:**

  * Use quotion marks to match a search term exactly. For example, `:tabname part studio 1` will display notices for Part Studio 1, Part Studio 10, Part Studio 11, etc. `:tabname "part studio 1"` will only display notices for Part Studio 1.
  * Searches are not case sensitive.
  * Filters can be combined. For example `:tabname "part studio 2" :minlevel error` will display only error notices for Part Studio 2.

## Out of date information

When markers in the Feature Studio don't represent information from the exact
current text of the full Feature Studio, they are marked out-of-date (and may
be temporarily incorrect). Below, the left-hand column shows out-of-date
versions of an error, a warning, and profile data. The right-hand column shows
up-to-date versions of that same information.

![Out-of-date error](tutorials/images/error-old.png) ![Up-to-date
error](tutorials/images/error-new.png)

![Out-of-date warning](tutorials/images/warning-old.png) ![Up-to-date
warning](tutorials/images/warning-new.png)

![Out-of-date profile data](tutorials/images/profile-data-old.png) ![Up-to-
date profile data](tutorials/images/profile-data-new.png)

Out-of-date markers from analysis will update themselves when analysis on the
latest text finishes (which should be quick). Out-of-date markers from
execution will be up-to-date after the current code is committed, and
execution of that code is complete.

## Internal errors

Internal errors are problems within Onshape which should never happen, no
matter what your FeatureScript looks like. If you see a notice reported like
the one below, please contact Onshape Support through the [feedback
menu](https://www.onshape.com/support), or post in the [FeatureScript
forum](https://forum.onshape.com/categories/featurescript).

![Internal error](tutorials/images/internal-error-notice-pane.png)

  *[API]: Application Programming Interface
  *[TL;DR]: Too long; didn't read.

