---
url: https://cad.onshape.com/FsDoc/library.html#qPlanesParallelToDirection-Query-Vector
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T14:40:35.788727
title: Untitled
---

[FeatureScript](index.html)  
  
Modeling

  * geometry
  * common
  * context
  * geomOperations
  * primitives
  * sketch
  * query
  * evaluate

Math

  * approximationUtils
  * box
  * coordSystem
  * curveGeometry
  * math
  * mathUtils
  * matrix
  * matrixWithUnits
  * nurbsUtils
  * persistentCoordSystem
  * splineUtils
  * surfaceGeometry
  * transform
  * transformUV
  * units
  * vector

Utilities

  * attributes
  * computedPartProperty
  * containers
  * cosmeticThreadUtils
  * debug
  * decalUtils
  * defaultFeatures
  * derive
  * edgeBlendCommon
  * error
  * extrudeCommon
  * feature
  * featureList
  * flatOperationType
  * formedUtils
  * frameAttributes
  * holeUtils
  * instantiator
  * libraryValidation
  * manipulator
  * path
  * patternCommon
  * patternUtils
  * properties
  * sheetMetalFormedLibraryValidation
  * string
  * tabReferences
  * table
  * templatestring
  * tolerance
  * topologyUtils
  * valueBounds
  * wrapSurface

Onshape features

  * bodyDraft
  * boolean
  * bridgingCurve
  * bsurf
  * chamfer
  * circularPattern
  * compositeCurve
  * compositePart
  * constrainedSurface
  * cplane
  * curvePattern
  * cutlist
  * decal
  * deleteBodies
  * deleteFace
  * draft
  * editCurve
  * enclose
  * endcap
  * extend
  * externalThread
  * extrude
  * faceBlend
  * faceIntersection
  * fillSurface
  * fillet
  * fitSpline
  * frame
  * frameTrim
  * gusset
  * helix
  * hole
  * holeTable
  * importDerived
  * importForeign
  * isocline
  * isoparametricCurve
  * linearPattern
  * loft
  * mateConnector
  * mirror
  * modifyFillet
  * moveCurveBoundary
  * moveFace
  * mutualTrim
  * offsetCurveOnFace
  * offsetSurface
  * projectCurves
  * queryVariable
  * replaceFace
  * revolve
  * rib
  * routingCurve
  * ruledSurface
  * sheetMetalAttribute
  * sheetMetalBend
  * sheetMetalBendRelief
  * sheetMetalCorner
  * sheetMetalCornerBreak
  * sheetMetalEnd
  * sheetMetalFlange
  * sheetMetalFormed
  * sheetMetalInFlat
  * sheetMetalJoint
  * sheetMetalMakeJoint
  * sheetMetalStart
  * sheetMetalTab
  * sheetMetalUtils
  * shell
  * splitpart
  * sweep
  * tag
  * thicken
  * transformCopy
  * variable
  * wrap

enums

  * annotationdimensiondirection
  * blendcontroltype
  * bodydraftconcaverepairtype
  * bodydraftcornertype
  * bodydraftmatchfacetype
  * bodydraftselectiontype
  * booleanoperationtype
  * boundingtype
  * chamfermethod
  * chamfertype
  * clashtype
  * constrainttype
  * coordinatesysteminferenceselectionfilter
  * curveextensionendcondition
  * curveextensionshape
  * curvepatternorientationtype
  * curvetype
  * debugcolor
  * dimensionalignment
  * drafttype
  * edgeconvexitytype
  * edgetopology
  * entityinferencetype
  * extendendtype
  * extendsheetshapetype
  * faceblendcrosssection
  * faceblendcrosssectionshape
  * faceblendpropagation
  * faceblendtrimtype
  * facecurvecreationtype
  * faulttype
  * featuredimensiontype
  * fieldweldflag
  * filletcrosssection
  * fittolerancetables
  * fixedparameterposition
  * geometriccontinuity
  * holepositionreference
  * holeprofiletype
  * icon
  * lofttopology
  * lookupTablePath
  * manipulatordragtypeenum
  * manipulatorstyleenum
  * manipulatortype
  * mateconnectoraxistype
  * matedoftype
  * movecurveboundarytype
  * offsetcurvetype
  * origincreationtype
  * partstudioitemtype
  * profilecontrolmode
  * projectiontype
  * propertytype
  * recordpatterntype
  * rotationtype
  * ruledsurfacecornertype
  * ruledsurfacetype
  * sectionpart
  * sidegeometryrule
  * smcornertype
  * splitoperationkeeptype
  * surfacetype
  * tabletextalignment
  * tessellatedloftreturnstatus
  * tool
  * uihint
  * variabletype
  * volumeaccuracy
  * weldfinishing
  * weldstandard
  * wraptype

# The Onshape Standard Library

## Modeling

## geometry

This module makes all Onshape Standard Library features and functions
available.

New Feature Studios begin with an import of this module,

    
    
    import(path : "onshape/std/geometry.fs", version : "");
    

with current version inserted (e.g. `300.0`). This gives that Feature Studio
access to all functions, types, enums, and constants defined in the Onshape
Standard Library.

## common

This module makes most common Onshape Standard Library functions available. It
can be imported in place of `geometry.fs`,

    
    
    import(path : "onshape/std/common.fs", version : "");
    

into Feature Studios that do not require the full set of Onshape Standard
Library features.

## context

Context type

A `Context` is a `builtin` that stores modeling data, including bodies
(solids, sheets, wires, and points), their constituent topological entities
(faces, edges, and vertices), variables, feature error states, etc.

Every Onshape Part Studio uses a single `Context`. All features, operations,
and evaluation functions require a context to operate on. Different contexts
do not interact, but data may be transferred from one to another using
`opMergeContexts`.

Each context keeps track of the version of the Onshape Standard Library at
which it was created. While regenerating a feature that has been "held back"
to an older version, the version reported by the context will be the older
version, causing subfeatures and operations to emulate old behavior.

canBeContext (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Context`

isAtVersionOrLater (versionToCheck is FeatureScriptVersionNumber,
versionToCompareAgainst is FeatureScriptVersionNumber) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

isAtInitialMixedModelingReleaseVersionOrLater (context is Context) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Returns true if at or after mixed modeling release version.

Id type

An Id identifies a feature or operation in a context. Each feature,
subfeature, and operation must have a unique id. Ids are used in queries,
error reporting, and accessing data associated with features.

Ids are hierarchical. That is, each operation's id must have a parent id. The
root id is constructed with `newId()` and subIds are added with the overloaded
`+` operator.

EXAMPLE

> `id + "foo"` represents an id named `"foo"` whose parent is `id`

EXAMPLE

> `id + "foo" + "bar"` represents an id named `"bar"` whose parent equals `id
> + "foo"`

Internally, an `Id` is just an array whose elements are strings, representing
the full path of the `Id`.

EXAMPLE

> `newId() + "foo" + "bar"` is equivalent to `["foo", "bar"] as Id`, though
> the expressions like the latter are not recommended in practice.

Within a feature, all operations' ids should be children of the feature's `Id`
(which is always passed into the feature function as the variable `id`).

Subfeatures should use a similar pattern. For instance, in the snippet below,
`mySubfeature` is a minimal example following good practices for breaking out
a set of operations into a subroutine.

    
    
    annotation { "Feature Type Name" : "My Feature" }
    export const myFeature = defineFeature(function(context is Context, id is Id, definition is map)
        precondition {}
        {
            fCuboid(context, id + "startingCube", {
                    "corner1" : vector(0, 0, 0) * inch,
                    "corner2" : vector(1, 1, 1) * inch
            });
            mySubfeature(context, id + "subFeature", qCreatedBy(id + "startingCube", EntityType.EDGE));
            fCuboid(context, id + "endingCube", {
                    "corner1" : vector(0, 0, 0) * inch,
                    "corner2" : vector(-1, -1, -1) * inch
            });
        }, {});
    function mySubfeature(context is Context, id is Id, entities is Query)
    {
        opChamfer(context, id + "chamfer", {
                "entities" : entities,
                "chamferType" : ChamferType.EQUAL_OFFSETS,
                "width" : 0.1 * inch
        });
        opFillet(context, id + "fillet1", {
            "entities" : qCreatedBy(id + "chamfer", EntityType.EDGE),
            "radius" : 0.05 * inch
        });
    }
    

The full id hierarchy must reflect creation history. That is, each `Id`
(including parents) must refer to a contiguous region of operations on the
context.

Thus, the following code will fail because `id + "extrude"` alone refers to
two non-contiguous regions of history:

    
    
    for (var i in [1, 2])
    {
        opExtrude(context, id + "extrude" + i, {...}); // Fails on second iteration.
        opChamfer(context, id + "chamfer" + i, {...});
    }
    

For the above code, a pattern like `id + i + "extrude"` or `id + ("loop" ~ i)
+ "extrude"` would work as expected, as would the unnested `id + ("extrude" ~
i)`.

Only the following characters are allowed in a string that makes up an `Id`:
`a-z`, `A-Z`, `0-9`, `_`, `+`, `-`, `/`. An asterisk `*` is allowed at the
beginning of the string to mark it an "unstable" component (see below).

canBeId (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Id`

newId () returns Id

Returns an empty id.

makeId (idComp is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns Id

Returns an id specified by the given string.

isTopLevelId (id is Id) predicate

True if the `Id` represents a top-level feature or default geometry (i.e. if
the `Id` has length `1`)

ANY_ID const

The string literal `"*"`, which matches any id inside certain queries.

EXAMPLE

> `qCreatedBy(id + ANY_ID + "fillet")`

unstableIdComponent (addend) returns [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

Marks a given id component as "unstable" causing queries to treat it as a
wildcard. This is useful for when the id component is not expected to be
robust, such as an index into the results of an evaluated query.

setVariable (context is Context, name is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), value)

Attach a variable to the context, which can be retrieved by another feature
defined later. If a variable of the same name already exists, this function
will overwrite it.

EXAMPLE

> `setVariable(context, "foo", 1)` attaches a variable named `"foo"`, with
> value set to `1`, on the context.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | | Can be any value, including an array or map with many elements.   
  
setVariable (context is Context, name is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), value, description is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))

Attach a variable with a description to the context, which can be retrieved by
another feature defined later. If a variable of the same name already exists,
this function will overwrite it.

EXAMPLE

> `setVariable(context, "foo", 1, "the foo")` attaches a variable named
> `"foo"`, with value set to `1` and the description set to "the foo", on the
> context.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | | Can be any value, including an array or map with many elements.   
`description` | `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| A string describing the use or purpose of the variable.   
  
getVariable (context is Context, name is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))

Retrieve a variable attached to the context by name. Throws an exception if
variable by the given name is not found.

EXAMPLE

> `getVariable(context, "foo")` returns the value assigned to a previously-set
> variable named `"foo"`.

Variables on a context can also be accessed within a Part Studio using `#`
syntax (e.g. `#foo`) inside any parameter which allows an expression.

getVariable (context is Context, name is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), defaultValue)

Retrieve a variable attached to the context by name. If variable by the given
name is not found, returns `defaultValue`

EXAMPLE

> `getVariable(context, "foo", {})` returns the value assigned to a
> previously-set variable named `"foo"`. If not found returns empty map.

libraryLanguageVersion ()

Returns the language version of the library. Note: this function calls
`@getLanguageVersion` internally, but if you call `@getLanguageVersion`
directly, you may get a different result. That is because
`@getLanguageVersion` returns the language version of the module making the
call (which, for a module in std will coincide with the version of std.)

## geomOperations

Operations are the basic modeling primitives of FeatureScript. Operations can
do extrusion, filleting, transforms, etc. An operation takes a context, an id,
and a definition and modifies the context in accordance with the definition.
The modifications can be referenced by the passed-in id. Operations return
`undefined` but can fail by throwing an error or they can report warnings or
infos. The status can be read with the getFeature... functions in error.fs.

When an operation parameter that requires one entity receives a query that
resolves to multiple entities, it takes the first resolved entity.

The geomOperations.fs module contains wrappers around built-in Onshape
operations and no actual logic.

opMoveCurveBoundary (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Trims or extends a wire body to an entity or by a distance.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `wires`

| `Query`| The wire bodies to modify.  
  
  * `moveBoundaryType`

| `MoveCurveBoundaryType`|  _Optional_ Whether to trim or extend. Default is
`TRIM`.  
  
  * `trimTo`

| `Query`|  _Required if`moveBoundaryType` is `TRIM`._Single entity to trim
`wires` to.  
  
  * `endCondition`

| `CurveExtensionEndCondition`|  _Optional_ If `moveBoundaryType` is `EXTEND`
defines whether to extend `wires` by a distance of to an entity. Default is
`BLIND`.  
  
  * `extensionDistance`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`endCondition` is `BLIND`_Distance to extend
`wires`.  
  
  * `extendTo`

| `Query`|  _Required if`endCondition` is `BLIND`_Single entity to extend
`wires` to.  
  
  * `extensionShape`

| `CurveExtensionShape`|  _Optional_ Specifies how to transition into the
curve extensions. Default is `SOFT`.  
  
  * `helpPoint`

| `Query`|  _Required if`endCondition` is `BLIND`_Specifies vertex used to
choose a solution. If this is not provided, the closest vertex to the bounding
entity will be used.  
  
  * `flipHeuristics`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If `true`, will trim
or extend from the opposite end of `wires`. Default is `false`.  
  
opBodyDraft (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Apply draft to a part by adding material. The material is added between
reference edges and a parting object. These reference edges can be supplied
directly, or they can be inferred from face or part queries.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `selectionType`

| `BodyDraftSelectionType`|  _Optional_ Topology class for input. Default is
`EDGES`  
  
  * `topEdges`

| `Query`|  _Required if`selectionType` is `EDGES`_Edges to draft above
parting entity.  
  
  * `bottomEdges`

| `Query`|  _Required if`selectionType` is `EDGES` and `bothSides` is
`true`_Edges to draft with `angleBelow`.  
  
  * `faces`

| `Query`|  _Required if`selectionType` is `FACES`_Faces to draft. This will
split the face with isoclines those for the draft. Additionally, any existing
edges bounding `faces` will be used if they mark a transition from steep faces
to non-steep faces for the given pull direction and draft angle.  
  
  * `bodies`

| `Query`|  _Required if`selectionType` is `PARTS`_Parts to draft. This is
equivalent to supplying all faces of the part in `faces`.  
  
  * `excludeFaces`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ Faces of `bodies` to exclude from drafting.  
  
  * `angle`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The draft angle above the parting object.  
  
  * `bothSides`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If `true`, draft on
both sides of the parting object. Default is `false`.  
  
  * `pullDirection`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The pull direction.  
  
  * `draftOnSelf`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, then using
the drafted part as the parting object. Default is `false`.  
  
  * `partingObject`

| | _Required if`draftOnSelf` is `false`_A surface from surfaceGeometry.fs or a query to a face or sheet body.   
  
  * `matchFacesAtParting`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, then
additional material will be added to make the top and bottom of the draft
align. Default is `false`.  
  
  * `matchFaceType`

| `BodyDraftMatchFaceType`|  _Optional_ How to add material for
`matchFacesAtParting` Default is `REFERENCE_EDGE`.  
  
  * `cornerType`

| `BodyDraftCornerType`|  _Optional_ The corner treatment to apply. Default is
`EXTEND`.  
  
  * `concaveRepair`

| `BodyDraftConcaveRepairType`|  _Optional_ How to resolve intersecting draft
faces. Default is `NONE`.  
  
  * `concaveRepairRadius`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`concaveRepair` is `RADIUS` or `MIX`._The
radius for intersection repair.  
  
  * `keepMaterial`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, an attempt
will be made to keep the regions of the part protruding from the tapered
faces. Default is false.  
  
  * `showRefs`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, then debug
data will be generated to show the parting surface and draft edges.  
  
opBoolean (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Performs a boolean operation on multiple solid and surface bodies.

See also

`processNewBodyIfNeeded` for merging new solids.

`joinSurfaceBodiesWithAutoMatching` for merging new surfaces.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `tools`

| `Query`| The tool bodies.  
  
  * `targets`

| `Query`|  _Required if`OperationType` is `SUBTRACTION` or
`SUBTRACT_COMPLEMENT`, or if `targetsAndToolsNeedGrouping` is true._The target
bodies.  
  
  * `operationType`

| `BooleanOperationType`| The boolean operation to perform.  EXAMPLE

> `BooleanOperationType.UNION` will merge any tool bodies that intersect or
> abut. All tool bodies have to be of the same type (solid or surface). When
> operating on surfaces, surfaces must have coincident or overlapping edges.
> When several bodies merge, the identity of the tool that appears earliest in
> the query is preserved (in particular, body color and body name are taken
> from it).

EXAMPLE

> `BooleanOperationType.SUBTRACTION` will remove the union of all tools bodies
> from every target body. All tool bodies must be solid bodies. Target bodies
> could be either solids or surfaces.

EXAMPLE

> `BooleanOperationType.INTERSECTION` will create the intersection of all tool
> bodies. All bodies must be solid bodies.

EXAMPLE

> `BooleanOperationType.SUBTRACT_COMPLEMENT` will remove the complement of the
> union of all tool bodies from every target body. All tool bodies must be
> solid bodies. Target bodies could be either solids or surfaces.  
  
  * `targetsAndToolsNeedGrouping`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ This option is for
adjusting the behavior to be more suitable for doing the boolean as part of a
body-creating feature (such as extrude). Default is `false`.  
  
  * `keepTools`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, the tools
do not get consumed by the operation. Default is false.  
  
  * `makeSolid`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ In case of surface
union try to join surfaces into a solid. Default is false.  
  
opBoundarySurface (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates a boundary surface fitting two ordered sets of profiles.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `uProfileSubqueries`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An ordered array of two or fewer
queries for the profiles in the u direction. These can be edges or wire
bodies.  EXAMPLE

> `[ profileQuery1, profileQuery2 ]`  
  
  * `vProfileSubqueries`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ An ordered array of two
or fewer queries for the profiles in the v direction. These can be edges or
wire bodies.  EXAMPLE

> `[ profileQuery1, profileQuery2 ]`  
  
  * `uDerivativeInfo`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ An array of maps that
contain shape constraints at start and end profiles. Each map entry is
required to have a profileIndex that refers to the affected profile. Optional
fields include a vector to match surface tangent to, a magnitude, and booleans
for matching tangents or curvature derived from faces adjacent to affected
profile.  EXAMPLE

> `[ { "profileIndex" : 0, "vector" : vector(1, 0, 0), "magnitude" : 2.,
> "tangentToPlane" : true}, { "profileIndex" : 1, "adjacentFaces" : qFaces }
> ]` The first map would constrain the resulting boundary surface at the first
> u profile to be tangent to plane with normal vector(1,0,0) and magnitude 2.
> The second map constrains the boundary surface at the second u profile to
> match tangents of faces defined by the query qFaces.  
  
  * `vDerivativeInfo`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ An array of maps
analogous to uDerivativeInfo, but for v profiles.  
  
  * `showIsocurves`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Show graphical
representation of a subset of isoparameteric curves on each face of the
created boundary surface. Default `false`.  
  
  * `curveCount`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Optional_ When `showIsocurves`
is `true`, the number of curves to draw in each direction of each face's grid.
Default `10`.  
  
opCreateBSplineCurve (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Generates a wire body given a `BSplineCurve` definition. The spline must have
dimension of 3 and be G1-continuous.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `bSplineCurve`

| `BSplineCurve`| The definition of the spline.  
  
opCreateBSplineSurface (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Generates a sheet body given a `BSplineSurface` definition. The spline must
have dimension of 3 and be G1-continuous.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `bSplineSurface`

| `BSplineSurface`| The definition of the spline surface.  
  
  * `boundaryBSplineCurves`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ An array of
`BSplineCurve`s defined in the parameter space of `bSplineSurface` to use as
the boundary of the created sheet body. The boundary must form a single closed
loop on the surface. The `dimension` of each curve must be `2`, as the
boundaries are being defined in UV space of the created surface. If no
boundary is supplied, the created sheet body will cover the full parameter
range of `bSplineSurface`.  
  
  * `makeSolid`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ When set to `true`,
the operation will produce a solid instead of a sheet if the surface encloses
a region. Default is `false`.  
  
opCreateCompositePart (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Create a composite part.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `bodies`

| `Query`| Bodies from which to create the composite part. .  
  
  * `closed`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ A `closed` composite
part consumes its constituent bodies, so that they are not available
interactively for individual selection. Default is `false`.  
  
opModifyCompositePart (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Modifies a composite part.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `composite`

| `Query`| Existing composite part to modify.  
  
  * `toAdd`

| `Query`| Bodies to add to the composite part.  
  
  * `toRemove`

| `Query`| Bodies to remove from the composite part.  
  
opChamfer (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Adds a chamfer to given edges and faces.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| Edges and faces to chamfer.  
  
  * `chamferType`

| `ChamferType`| Determines where the new edges of the chamfer are positioned.
EXAMPLE

> `ChamferType.EQUAL_OFFSETS` places both new edges `width` away from each
> original edge.

EXAMPLE

> `ChamferType.TWO_OFFSETS` places edges `width1` and `width2` away.

EXAMPLE

> `ChamferType.OFFSET_ANGLE` places one edge `width` away, and chamfers at an
> angle from that edge.  
  
  * `width`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`chamferType` is `EQUAL_OFFSETS` or
`OFFSET_ANGLE`._EXAMPLE

> `0.2 * inch`  
  
  * `width1`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`chamferType` is `TWO_OFFSETS`._  
  
  * `width2`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`chamferType` is `TWO_OFFSETS`._  
  
  * `angle`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`chamferType` is `OFFSET_ANGLE`._  
  
  * `oppositeDirection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Required if`chamferType` is
`OFFSET_ANGLE` or `TWO_OFFSETS`._`true` to reverse the two edges.  
  
  * `tangentPropagation`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` to propagate
the chamfer along edges tangent to those passed in. Defaults to `false`.  
  
opConstrainedSurface (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates a constrained surface from the points.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `points`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of maps containing: `point`
(Vector) : The position of the point we want the surface to pass through.
`normal` (Vector) (Optional) : The direction of the normal of the surface at
this point.  
  
  * `tolerance`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Optional_ The distance the surface is allowed to deviate
from the given points. Default is `1e-6 meter`.  
  
  * `smooth`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, the surface
will be optimized for smoothness. If false, it will be optimized for
performance. Default is `false`.  
  
  * `references`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ For Onshape internal use.  
  
CurveOnFaceDefinition type

Describes a set of isoparametric curves on a face.

Value| Type| Description | `CurveOnFaceDefinition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `face`

| `Query`| Face the curves are meant to lie on.  
  
  * `creationType`

| `FaceCurveCreationType`| Determines the type of curves. Currently supports
isoparameter curves only in primary or secondary directions, either equally
spaced or defined by a parameter array.  
  
  * `names`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of distinct non-empty
strings to identify the curves created.  
  
  * `nCurves`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Required if`creationType` is
`DIR1_AUTO_SPACED_ISO` or `DIR2_AUTO_SPACED_ISO`_Number of curves.  
  
  * `parameters`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Required if`creationType` is
`DIR1_ISO` or `DIR2_ISO`_Parameters to create curves at.  
  
canBeCurveOnFaceDefinition (value) predicate

Typecheck for `CurveOnFaceDefinition`

curveOnFaceDefinition (face is Query, creationType is FaceCurveCreationType,
names is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), nCurves is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns CurveOnFaceDefinition

Returns a new `CurveOnFaceDefinition`.

curveOnFaceDefinition (face is Query, creationType is FaceCurveCreationType,
names is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), parameters is
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns CurveOnFaceDefinition

opCreateCurvesOnFace (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Generates isoparametric curves of faces. That is, for each specified surface
parameter value, creates a new wire body following the curve which keeps the
surface parameter at that constant value.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `curveDefinition`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of `CurveOnFaceDefinition`s
that describe group of curves per face.  
  
  * `showCurves`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether to display
isoparameteric curves in color in the preview.  
  
  * `skipTrim`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether to skip
trimming of curves by the face boundaries. Lines and arcs are always trimmed.  
  
  * `useFaceParameter`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ For Onshape internal
use.  
  
opDeleteBodies (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Deletes bodies from the context.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| Entities to delete. Passing in entities other than bodies deletes
their owning bodies.  
  
opDeleteFace (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

This is a direct editing operation that attempts to delete faces of a solid
body and extend other faces to fill the hole.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `deleteFaces`

| `Query`| Faces to delete.  
  
  * `includeFillet`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| `true` to also delete fillets
adjacent to the input faces.  
  
  * `capVoid`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| If `capVoid` is `true` and the
deleted face cannot be filled by extending the surrounding faces, will attempt
to replace the face with a planar face.  
  
  * `leaveOpen`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If `leaveOpen` is
`true` the void from deleting faces is left open, potentially creating a
surface out of a solid body. Default is `false`.  
  
opDraft (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Applies a given draft angle to faces.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `draftType`

| `DraftType`| Specifies a reference surface (e.g. a neutral plane) or
reference entity draft.  EXAMPLE

> `DraftType.REFERENCE_SURFACE` for a reference surface draft  
  
  * `draftFaces`

| `Query`|  _Required if`draftType` is `REFERENCE_SURFACE` _The faces to draft
for a `REFERENCE_SURFACE` draft.  
  
  * `referenceSurface`

| | _Required if`draftType` is `REFERENCE_SURFACE` _A face or plane that defines the neutral surface for a `REFERENCE_SURFACE` draft. `draftFaces` will remain unchanged where they intersect `referenceSurface`. Can be either a `Query` or a `Plane`.   
  
  * `referenceEntityDraftOptions`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Required if`draftType` is
`REFERENCE_ENTITY` _An array of maps of the form ("face", "references",
"angle"). "face" should be a `Query` for exactly one face. "references" should
be a `Query` for at least one edge attached to the face. The "face" will be
drafted while the geometry of the "references" remains unchanged. "angle" is
an optional `ValueWithUnits` parameter between -89.9 and 89.9 degrees which
overrides the default `angle` parameter.  
  
  * `pullVec`

| `Vector`| The 3d direction relative to which the draft is applied.  EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 0, 1)` .  
  
  * `angle`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The draft angle, must be between 0 and 89.9 degrees.
EXAMPLE

> `3 * degree`  
  
  * `tangentPropagation`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ For a
`REFERENCE_SURFACE` draft, `true` to propagate draft across tangent faces.
Default is `false`.  
  
  * `referenceEntityPropagation`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ For a
`REFERENCE_ENTITY` draft, `true` to collect new reference entities and faces
by pulling in edges connected to the specified reference edges. Connected
edges on the same face or on tangent connected faces will be pulled in.
Default is `false`.  
  
  * `reFillet`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` to attempt to
defillet draft faces before the draft and reapply the fillets after. Default
is `false`.  
  
opExtractWires (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Generates wire bodies from the supplied edges. If the edges are disjoint
multiple wires will be returned. If the edges overlap or cross, or more than
two meet at a point, the function will fail.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `edges`

| `Query`| The edges to be extracted.  
  
opExtrude (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Extrudes one or more edges or faces in a given direction with one or two end
conditions. Faces get extruded into solid bodies and edges get extruded into
sheet bodies.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| Edges and faces to extrude.  
  
  * `direction`

| `Vector`| The 3d direction in which to extrude.  EXAMPLE

> `evOwnerSketchPlane(context, {"entity" : entities}).normal` to extrude
> perpendicular to the owner sketch

EXAMPLE

> `evPlane(context, {"face" : entities}).normal` to extrude perpendicular to
> the first planar entity  
  
  * `endBound`

| `BoundingType`| The type of bound at the end of the extrusion. Cannot be
`SYMMETRIC` or `UP_TO_VERTEX`.  EXAMPLE

> `BoundingType.BLIND`  
  
  * `endDepth`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`endBound` is `BLIND`._How far from the
`entities` to extrude.  EXAMPLE

> `1 * inch`  
  
  * `endBoundEntity`

| `Query`|  _Required if`endBound` is `UP_TO_SURFACE` or `UP_TO_BODY`._The
face or body that provides the bound.  
  
  * `endTranslationalOffset`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Optional_ The translational offset between the extrude
end cap and the end bound entity. The direction vector for this is the same as
`direction`: negative values pull the end cap away from the bound entity when
`endDepth` is positive. `endOffset` will only have an effect if `endBound` is
`UP_TO_SURFACE`, `UP_TO_BODY`, or `UP_TO_NEXT`.  
  
  * `startBound`

| `BoundingType`|  _Optional_ The type of start bound. Default is for the
extrude to start at `entities`. Cannot be `SYMMETRIC` or `UP_TO_VERTEX`.  
  
  * `isStartBoundOpposite`

| | _Required if is`UP_TO_SURFACE`, `UP_TO_BODY`, or `UP_TO_NEXT`._Whether the `startBound` extends in the opposite direction from the profile as the `endBound`. Defaults to `true` if not supplied.   
  
  * `startDepth`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`startBound` is `BLIND`._How far from the
`entities` to start the extrude. The direction vector for this is the negative
of `direction`: positive values make the extrusion longer when `endDepth` is
positive.  
  
  * `startBoundEntity`

| `Query`|  _Required if`startBound` is `UP_TO_SURFACE` or `UP_TO_BODY`._The
face or body that provides the bound.  
  
  * `startTranslationalOffset`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Optional_ The translational offset between the extrude
start cap and the start bound entity. The direction vector for this is the
negative of `direction`: negative values pull the end cap away from the bound
entity when `startDepth` is positive. `startOffset` will only have an effect
if `startBound` is `UP_TO_SURFACE`, `UP_TO_BODY`, or `UP_TO_NEXT`.  
  
opFaceBlend (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Performs a face blend between two walls of faces.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `side1`

| `Query`| First set of faces, must belong to the same body.  
  
  * `side2`

| `Query`| Second set of faces, must belong to the same body.  
  
  * `flipSide1Normal`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Wether to flip side 1's normal.  
  
  * `flipSide2Normal`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Wether to flip side 2's normal.  
  
  * `propagation`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether to propagate
the blend.  
  
  * `propagationType`

| `FaceBlendPropagation`|  _Optional_ How to propagate the blend.
FaceBlendPropagation.TANGENT will propagate over tangent faces.
FaceBlendPropagation.ADJACENT will propagate over all adjacent faces.
FaceBlendPropagation.CUSTOM allows specification of a maximum angle between
faces for propagation. Defaults is FaceBlendPropagation.TANGENT.  
  
  * `propagationAngle`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Optional_ Maximum angle between faces for propagation.
Used if propagationType is FaceBlendPropagation.CUSTOM. Default is 0 * radian.  
  
  * `crossSection`

| `FaceBlendCrossSection`| The cross section type of the blend.  
  
  * `spine`

| `Query`|  _Required if`crossSection` is `DISC`._The spine of the blend. The
blend's cross section will be orthogonal to the spine.  
  
  * `blendControlType`

| `BlendControlType`| Whether the blend is controled by a constant radius or a
constant width.  
  
  * `crossSectionShape`

| `FaceBlendCrossSectionShape`| What shape the cross section of the blend will
be.  
  
  * `radius`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`blendControlType` is `RADIUS`._The radius of
the cross section.  
  
  * `width`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`blendControlType` is `WIDTH`._The width of
the blend.  
  
  * `asymmetric`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Wether the radius or
width is the same on each wall.  
  
  * `secondRadius`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`blendControlType` is `RADIUS` and
`asymmetric` is `true`._The radius of the cross section from side 2.  
  
  * `widthRatio`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Required if`blendControlType` is
`WIDTH` and `asymmetric` is `true`._How the blend will be divided between the
walls. If widthRatio < 1, it will be wider towards side 1. If widthRatio > 1,
it will be wider towards side 2.  
  
  * `rho`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Required if`crossSectionShape`
is `CONIC`_Parameter of the conic cross section shape.  
  
  * `magnitude`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Required if`crossSectionShape`
is `CURVATURE`_Parameter of the curvature cross section shape.  
  
  * `tangentHoldLines`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether to use the
content of `tangentEdges` and `inverseTangentEdges`.  
  
  * `tangentEdges`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ Edges to use as tangent hold lines.  
  
  * `inverseTangentEdges`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ Edges to use as inverse tangent hold lines.  
  
  * `conicHoldLines`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether to use the
content of `conicEdges` and `inverseConicEdges`.  
  
  * `conicEdges`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ Edges to use as conic hold lines.  
  
  * `inverseConicEdges`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ Edges to use as inverse conic hold lines.  
  
  * `hasCliffEdges`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether to use the
content of `cliffEdges`.  
  
  * `cliffEdges`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ Edges to use as cliff edges.  
  
  * `hasCaps`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether to use the
content of `caps`.  
  
  * `caps`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ Entities and flip flags
to use as caps. Each map should contain an `entity` Query element and a `flip`
boolean element.  
  
  * `hasLimits`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether to use the
content of `limitPlane1`, `limitPlane2`, `faceLimits` and `edgeLimit`.  
  
  * `limitPlane1`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ First plane to limit the blend.  
  
  * `limitPlane1Flip`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether to flip the first plane
normal. Defines which side of the plane the blend will be.  
  
  * `limitPlane2`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ Second plane to limit the blend.  
  
  * `limitPlane2Flip`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether to flip the first plane
normal. Defines which side of the plane the blend will be.  
  
  * `faceLimits`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ Faces to use as limits to the blend.  
  
  * `edgeLimit`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ Edges and adjacent faces
to use as limits. Each map should contain an `edge` Query element and an
`edgeLimitSide` query element.  
  
  * `hasHelpPoint`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether to use the
content of `helpPoint`.  
  
  * `helpPoint`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ Vertex or mate connector to use as help point. In case
the blend parameters create several blends, only the blend closest to the help
point will be kept.  
  
  * `trim`

| `FaceBlendTrimType`|  _Optional_ How to trim the blend.  
  
  * `detach`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether not to
attach the blend(s) to the sides, creating new sheet bodies.  
  
  * `showIsocurves`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Show graphical
representation of a subset of isoparameteric curves of the created surface.
Default `false`.  
  
  * `curveCount`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Optional_ When `showIsocurves`
is `true`, the number of curves to draw in each direction of the grid. Default
`10`.  
  
opFillet (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

For edges, performs a fillet on the edge. For faces, performs a fillet on all
edges adjacent to the face.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| Edges and faces to fillet.  
  
  * `radius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The fillet radius.  EXAMPLE

> `1 * inch`  
  
  * `tangentPropagation`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` to propagate
the fillet along edges tangent to those passed in. Default is `false`.  
  
  * `crossSection`

| `FilletCrossSection`|  _Optional_ Fillet cross section. One of `CIRCULAR`,
`CONIC`, `CURVATURE`. Default is `CIRCULAR`.  
  
  * `rho`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Required if`crossSection` is
`CONIC`._A number between 0 and 1, specifying the Rho value of a conic fillet
EXAMPLE

> `0.01` creates a flat, nearly-chamfered shape.

EXAMPLE

> `0.99` creates a pointed, nearly-unchanged shape.  
  
  * `magnitude`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Required if`crossSection` is
`CURVATURE`._A number between 0 and 1, specifying the magnitude of curvature
match.  
  
  * `partialFilletBounds`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ An array of maps
representing the boundaries of a partial fillet. Each map should contain a
`boundaryEdge` query, a `boundaryParameter` value, a `isFlipped` boolean
EXAMPLE

> `[{ "boundaryEdge" : edgeQuery0, "boundaryParameter" : 0.3, "isFlipped" :
> false }, { "boundaryEdge" : edgeQuery1, "boundaryParameter" : 0.6,
> "isFlipped" : true }]`  
  
  * `isVariable`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Fillet controls can
be varied at vertices via `vertexSettings`. Default is `false`.  
  
  * `vertexSettings`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ An array of maps
representing fillet settings at specified vertices. Each map should contain a
`vertex` query, a `vertexRadius` value, a `variableMagnitude` if the
`crossSection` is `FilletCrossSection.CURVATURE`, and a `variableRho` if the
`crossSection` is `FilletCrossSection.CONIC`.  EXAMPLE

> `[{ "vertex" : vertexQuery0, "vertexRadius" : 1 * inch, "variableRho" : 0.2
> }, { "vertex" : vertexQuery1, "vertexRadius" : 2 * inch, "variableRho" : 0.8
> }]`  
  
  * `pointOnEdgeSettings`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ An array of maps
representing fillet settings at specified points on edges. Each map should
contain an `edge` query, an `edgeParameter` value, a `pointOnEdgeRadius`
value, a `pointOnEdgeVariablMagnitude` if the `crossSection` is
`FilletCrossSection.CURVATURE`, and a `pointOnEdgeVariableRho` if the
`crossSection` is `FilletCrossSection.CONIC`.  EXAMPLE

> `[{ "edge" : edgeQuery0, "edgeParameter" : 0.3, "pointOnEdgeRadius" : 1 *
> inch }, { "edge" : edgeQuery1, "edgeParameter" : 0.6, "pointOnEdgeRadius" :
> 2 * inch }]`  
  
  * `smoothTransition`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Required if`isVariable` is
`true` _Whether to create a smoother transition between each vertex.  
  
  * `allowEdgeOverflow`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Allow `opFillet` to
modify nearby edges to maintain the fillet profile. Default is `true`.  
  
  * `keepEdges`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ Edges you do not want `opFillet` to modify if
`allowEdgeOverflow` is `true`.  
  
  * `smoothCorners`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Allow `opFillet` to
smooth all suitable corners and prevent creation of sharp edges. Default is
`false`.  
  
  * `smoothCornerExceptions`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ Vertices you do not want `opFillet` to smooth if
`smoothCorners` is `true`.  
  
  * `createDetachedSurface`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Operation does not
modify the body of the selected edges, but results in surface geometry of
fillet. Default is `false`.  
  
opFillSurface (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Generates a surface body from supplied boundary and internal constraints. The
boundaries are defined as edge queries for each continuity constraint. The
internal constraints may be defined as a set of support vertices.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `edgesG0`

| `Query`| The edges with position constraints.  
  
  * `edgesG1`

| `Query`| The edges with tangency constraints.  
  
  * `edgesG2`

| `Query`| The edges with curvature constraints.  
  
  * `guideVertices`

| `Query`| The vertices the resulting surface is expected to interpolate.  
  
  * `showIsocurves`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Show graphical
representation of a subset of isoparameteric curves of the created surface.
Default `false`.  
  
  * `curveCount`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Optional_ When `showIsocurves`
is `true`, the number of curves to draw in each direction of the grid. Default
`10`.  
  
opFitSpline (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates a 3D cubic spline curve through an array of 3D points.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `points`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of `Vector`s with length
units for the spline to interpolate. If the first point is the same as the
last point, the spline is closed.  EXAMPLE

>
>     [
>         vector( 1,  1,  1) * inch,
>         vector(-1,  1, -1) * inch,
>         vector( 1, -1, -1) * inch,
>         vector(-1, -1,  1) * inch,
>         vector( 1,  1,  1) * inch
>     ]
>  
  
  * `parameters`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ An array of doubles,
parameters corresponding to the points.  
  
  * `startDerivative`

| `Vector`|  _Optional_ A `Vector` with length units that specifies the
derivative at the start of the resulting spline (according to the
`arcLengthParameterization` set to `false`).  
  
  * `endDerivative`

| `Vector`|  _Optional_ A `Vector` with length units that specifies the
derivative at the end of the resulting spline. Ignored if spline is closed.  
  
  * `start2ndDerivative`

| `Vector`|  _Optional_ A `Vector` with length units that specifies the second
derivative at the start of the resulting spline. Ignored if spline is closed,
or if `startDerivative` is not defined  
  
  * `end2ndDerivative`

| `Vector`|  _Optional_ A `Vector` with length units that specifies the second
derivative at the end of the resulting spline. Ignored if spline is closed, or
if `endDerivative` is not defined  
  
  * `derivatives`

| `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|  _Optional_ A map of derivatives at non-
end points. Entries should be `index : derivative`, where `index` is an
integer between 1 and `size(points) - 2` and `derivative` is a `Vector` that
specifies the derivative at `points[index]`.  
  
opFlipOrientation (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Reverses the orientation of sheet bodies.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `bodies`

| `Query`| Sheet bodies whose orientation should be flipped.  
  
opFullRoundFillet (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates a full round fillet, replacing the center face(s) with circular
profile face(s) of varying radius, joining the selected side faces.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `side1Face`

| `Query`| A face on one side of the blend.  
  
  * `side2Face`

| `Query`| A face on another side of the blend.  
  
  * `centerFaces`

| `Query`| The face(s) to be replaced.  
  
  * `tangentPropagation`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` to propagate
the fillet across side face tangencies. Default is `true`.  
  
opHelix (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates a helical and possibly spiral curve.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `direction`

| `Vector`| The direction of the helix axis.  EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 0, 1)`  
  
  * `axisStart`

| `Vector`| A point on the helix axis.  EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 0, 0) * inch`  
  
  * `startPoint`

| `Vector`| The start point of the infinite helix. Must be off the axis. This
is the point at which the created curve would actually start if the first
number of `interval` is 0.  EXAMPLE

> `vector(1, 0, 0) * inch`  
  
  * `interval`

| `Vector`| An array of two numbers denoting the interval of the helix in
terms of revolution counts.  EXAMPLE

> `[0, 10]` will create a curve with 10 revolutions.  
  
  * `clockwise`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| EXAMPLE

> `true` if this is a clockwise helix when viewed along `direction`.  
  
  * `helicalPitch`

| `ValueWithUnits`| Distance along the axis between successive revolutions.
EXAMPLE

> `0.1 * inch` will create a helix with 10 revolutions per inch.

EXAMPLE

> `0 * inch` produces a planar Archimedean spiral.  
  
  * `spiralPitch`

| `ValueWithUnits`| Change in radius between successive revolutions.  EXAMPLE

> `0 * inch` produces a helix that lies on a cylinder.  
  
opHole (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Creates hole tools referencing a set of targets, optionally subtracting the
tools from the targets. If some tools cannot be built, the operation will
still succeed and indicate in its return value which holes failed to build. If
no tools can be built, the operation will fail.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `holeDefinition`

| `HoleDefinition`| The definition of the shape of the desired holes.  EXAMPLE

> `holeDefinition([holeProfile(HolePositionReference.AXIS_POINT, 0 * inch, 0.1
> * inch), holeProfile(HolePositionReference.AXIS_POINT, 1 * inch, 0 *
> inch)])`  
  
  * `axes`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of `Line`s each of whose
`origin` represents the start position of a hole, and whose `direction`
represents the drill direction of the hole.  EXAMPLE

> `[line(vector(-1, -1, 0) * inch, vector(0, 0, -1)), line(vector(1, 1, 0) *
> inch, vector(0, 0, -1))]`  
  
  * `identities`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ An array of queries, one
per axis in `axes`, used to disambiguate each of the created holes. Each query
should resolve to exactly one entity. Providing this information does not
change the geometric outcome, but stabilizes references to the holes with
respect to upstream changes to the model.  
  
  * `targets`

| `Query`|  _Required if`holeDefinition` contains any `profiles` that do not
reference `HolePositionReference.AXIS_POINT`, or if `subtractFromTargets` is
`true` _A set of bodies to target. The shape of the produced holes is
dependent on the shape of these targets (as specified in the supplied
`HoleDefinition`), so the full set of targeted bodies should always be
supplied, even if `subtractFromTargets` is `false`.  
  
  * `subtractFromTargets`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` if the hole
geometry should be subtracted from the targets. `false` if the targets should
not be modified, and the hole tools should be outputted as new solid bodies.
Default is `true`. To subtract from a subset of targets, set this to `true`
and supply a set of excluded targets as `targetsToExcludeFromSubtraction`.
Removing the set of excluded targets from `targets` instead of using
`targetsToExcludeFromSubtraction` is not the correct way to call this
interface, and may result in the shape of the hole changing.  
  
  * `targetsToExcludeFromSubtraction`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ If supplied and `subtractFromTargets` is `true`, the
given targets are excluded from the subtraction. Ignored if
`subtractFromTargets` is `false`  
  
  * `keepTools`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If
`subtractFromTargets` is `true`, controls whether the hole tools should be
outputted as new solid bodies. Default is `false`. Ignored if
`subtractFromTargets` is `false`; in that case hole tools are always outputted
as new solid bodies.  
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array representing target
intersection information for each hole. The array is aligned with the `axes`
input. Each item in the array is a map containing a `boolean` field `success`,
which indicates whether the tool was successfully built. If `success` is
`true` the map will contain three additional entries: `targetToDepthExtremes`,
`positionReferenceInfo` and `holeDepth`. The value of `targetToDepthExtremes`
is a `map` mapping the `targets` that the given hole intersects to a map of
intersection information for those targets. Only targets that are intersected
by the hole will be present in the map. Each map key is a `Query` for one of
the targets, and the corresponding value is itself a map of the form `{
"firstEntrance" : firstEntranceDistance, "fullEntrance" :
fullEntranceDistance, "firstExit" : firstExitDistance, "fullExit" :
fullExitDistance }` `firstEntranceDistance`, `fullEntranceDistance`,
`firstExitDistance`, and `fullExitDistance` are `ValueWithUnits` representing
distances, along the axis, from the origin point of the axis to various
important markers on the infinite hole cylinder. `firstEntranceDistance` and
`fullEntranceDistance` represent the range over which the infinite hole
cylinder enters the part, with `firstEntranceDistance` representing where the
infinite hole cylinder first enters the part, and `fullEntranceDistance`
representing where the infinite hole cylinder fully enters the part. These
values are distinct when the entrance face into the part is slanted (or
otherwise irregular). `firstExitDistance` and `fullExitDistance` similarly
represent the range over which the infinite hole cylinder exits the part. The
value of `positionReferenceInfo` is a `map` whose keys are the
`HolePositionReference`s found in the `holeDefinition` and whose value is a
map of the form `{ "referenceRootStart" : referenceRootStartDistance,
"referenceRootEnd" : referenceRootEndDistance, "target" : targetQuery }`.
`referenceRootStartDistance` is a `ValueWithUnits` representing the distance,
along the axis, from the origin point of the axis to the first coincidence
between the infinite hole cylinder and the reference in question.
`referenceRootEndDistance` is a similar measurement to the last coincidence
between the infinite hole cylinder and the reference in question. For flat
references, such as a `TARGET_START` referencing the top face of a cube, these
two values will be the same. The values will differ for slanted (or otherwise
irregular) references where the infinite hole cylinder interacts with the
reference over a range, rather than at a single distance. `targetQuery` is a
`Query` for the `target` that defines that position reference. `holeDepth` is
a `ValueWithUnits` representing the distance, along the axis from the first
entrance of the intersected targets to the termination entity. Used for
references such as UP_TO_ENTITY and UP_TO_NEXT to get a calculated depth of a
hole. EXAMPLE

>
>     // For an opHole operation creating two holes, both going into two
> stacked
>     // parts, the first of which being 1 inch thick with a slightly slanted
> top
>     // and flat bottom and the second being 3 inches thick with a flat top
> and
>     // bottom, and the holeDefinition referencing both TARGET_START and
>     // LAST_TARGET_START the return value may look like:
>     [
>         { // First hole (successful)
>             "success" : true,
>             "targetToDepthExtremes" : {
>                         (firstTargetQuery)  : {
>                                 "firstEntrance" : 0.1 * inch,
>                                 "fullEntrance" : 0.3 * inch,
>                                 "firstExit" : 1 * inch,
>                                 "fullExit" : 1 * inch
>                             },
>                         (secondTargetQuery) : {
>                                 "firstEntrance" : 1 * inch,
>                                 "fullEntrance" : 1 * inch,
>                                 "firstExit" : 4 * inch,
>                                 "fullExit" : 4 * inch
>                             }
>                     },
>             "positionReferenceInfo" : {
>                         HolePositionReference.TARGET_START : {
>                                 "referenceRootStart" : 0.1 * inch,
>                                 "referenceRootEnd" : 0.3 * inch,
>                                 "target" : firstTargetQuery
>                             },
>                         HolePositionReference.LAST_TARGET_START : {
>                                 "referenceRootStart" : 1 * inch,
>                                 "referenceRootEnd" : 1 * inch,
>                                 "target" : secondTargetQuery
>                             },
>                     }
>         },
>         { // Second hole (successful)
>             "success" : true,
>             "targetToDepthExtremes" : {
>                         (firstTargetQuery)  : {
>                                 "firstEntrance" : 0.4 * inch,
>                                 "fullEntrance" : 0.6 * inch,
>                                 "firstExit" : 1 * inch,
>                                 "fullExit" : 1 * inch
>                             },
>                         (secondTargetQuery) : {
>                                 "firstEntrance" : 1 * inch,
>                                 "fullEntrance" : 1 * inch,
>                                 "firstExit" : 4 * inch,
>                                 "fullExit" : 4 * inch
>                             }
>                     },
>             "positionReferenceInfo" : {
>                         HolePositionReference.TARGET_START : {
>                                 "referenceRootStart" : 0.4 * inch,
>                                 "referenceRootEnd" : 0.6 * inch,
>                                 "target" : firstTargetQuery
>                             },
>                         HolePositionReference.LAST_TARGET_START : {
>                                 "referenceRootStart" : 1 * inch,
>                                 "referenceRootEnd" : 1 * inch,
>                                 "target" : secondTargetQuery
>                             },
>                     }
>         },
>         { // Third hole (unsuccessful)
>             "success" : false
>         }
>     ]
>  
  
opImportForeign (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Brings foreign geometry into the context. This function is used for importing
uploaded parts.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `blobData`

| `CADImportData`| Reference to a blob element hosting uploaded CAD data.  
  
  * `flatten`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether to flatten
assemblies; defaults to false.  
  
  * `yAxisIsUp`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, the y axis
in the import maps to the z axis and z maps to -y. If false (default), the
coordinates are unchanged.  
  
  * `isModifiable`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether the imported
data is modifiable (default) or not.  
  
opCreateIsocline (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates wires corresponding to the given `faces`'s isocline edges. Each
isocline follows a path along a face with a constant `angle` in the (-90, 90)
degree range (e.g., lines of latitude on a sphere). This `angle` is the face
tangent plane's angle with respect to the `direction` with its sign determined
by the dot product of `direction` and the face normal, and is analogous to the
angle used in draft analysis. Depending on the face geometry, there may be
zero, one, or multiple isoclines on each face.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `faces`

| `Query`| The faces on which to imprint isoclines.  
  
  * `direction`

| `Vector`| A reference direction.  
  
  * `angle`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The isocline angle with respect to the direction in the
(-90, 90) degree range.  
  
opLoft (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates a surface or solid loft fitting an ordered set of profiles, optionally
constrained by guide curves.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `profileSubqueries`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An ordered array of queries for the
profiles. For a solid loft, these must be sheet bodies, faces, or vertices.
For a surface loft, these could be wire bodies, sheet bodies, faces, edges, or
vertices.  EXAMPLE

> `[ profileQuery1, profileQuery2 ]`  
  
  * `guideSubqueries`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ An array of queries for
guide curves. Each guide curve should intersect each profile once.  
  
  * `connections`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ An array of maps to
define multiple profile alignments. Each connection map should contain: (1)
connectionEntities query describing an array of vertices or edges (one per
profile), (2) connectionEdges an array of individual queries for edges in
connectionEntities. The order of individual edge queries should be
synchronized with connectionEdgeParameters. (3) connectionEdgeParameters array
- an ordered and synchronized array of parameters on edges in
connectionEdgeQueries  EXAMPLE

> `[ {"connectionEntities" : qVertexAndEdge1, "connectionEdges" : [qEdge1],
> "connectionEdgeParameters" : [0.25]} {"connectionEntities" :
> qVertexAndEdge2, "connectionEdges" : [qEdge2], "connectionEdgeParameters" :
> [0.75]}]`  
  
  * `connectionsArcLengthParameterization`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Defaults to false
for better performance. Controls interpretation of connectionEdgeParameters.
If `evDistance`, `evEdgeTangentLine` etc. are called in conjunction with
opLoft the same value should be passed as `arcLengthParameterization` there.  
  
  * `makePeriodic`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Defaults to false. A
closed guide creates a periodic loft regardless of this option.  
  
  * `bodyType`

| `ToolBodyType`|  _Optional_ Specifies a `SOLID` or `SURFACE` loft. Default
is `SOLID`.  
  
  * `trimGuidesByProfiles`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If false (default)
use full length of guides. If true restrict resulting surface by the first and
last profile. Meaningful only for non-periodic surface loft.  
  
  * `trimProfiles`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If false (default)
use full length of profiles. If true restrict resulting surface by the first
and last guide or connection. Meaningful only for surface loft with open
profiles.  
  
  * `derivativeInfo`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ An array of maps that
contain shape constraints at start and end profiles. Each map entry is
required to have a profileIndex that refers to the affected profile. Optional
fields include a vector to match surface tangent to, a magnitude, and booleans
for matching tangents or curvature derived from faces adjacent to affected
profile.  EXAMPLE

> `[ { "profileIndex" : 0, "vector" : vector(1, 0, 0), "magnitude" : 2.,
> "tangentToPlane" : true}, { "profileIndex" : 1, "matchCurvature" : true,
> "adjacentFaces" : qFaces } ]` The first map would constrain the resulting
> loft at the start profile to be tangent to plane with normal vector(1,0,0)
> and magnitude 2. The second map constrains the loft at the end profile to
> match the curvature of faces defined by the query qFaces.  
  
  * `showIsocurves`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Show graphical
representation of a subset of isoparameteric curves on each face of the
created loft. Default `false`.  
  
  * `curveCount`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Optional_ When `showIsocurves`
is `true`, the number of curves to draw in each direction of each face's grid.
Default `10`.  
  
  * `loftTopology`

| `LoftTopology`|  _Optional_ Specifies topology of lofted body. Default is
`MINIMAL`.  
  
  * `addSections`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` to add a path.
Default is `false`.  
  
  * `spine`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ Query to specify the edge for the path.  
  
  * `sectionCount`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Optional_ Number of sections to
add. Required if `addSections=true`.  
  
opMateConnector (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates a mate connector, which represents a coordinate system in the context.
Currently it is a special type of point body.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `coordSystem`

| `CoordSystem`| The mate connector coordinate system.  
  
  * `owner`

| `Query`| The owner body of the mate connector: when the owner is brought
into an assembly, owned mate connectors will be brought in and move rigidly
with it. If the query resolves to multiple bodies, the first is taken as the
owner.  
  
opMergeContexts (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Bring all of the information from `contextFrom` into `context`. This is used,
for example, for the Derived feature.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`context` | `Context`| The target context.   
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `contextFrom`

| `Context`| The source context. It is rendered unusable by this operation.
EXAMPLE

> `MyPartStudio::build()`  
  
  * `trackThroughMerge`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ Array of queries to map
evaluation result in contextFrom to context post-merge  
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| Returns array of the same size as
trackThroughMerge with evaluation results for each query(array of arrays of
transient queries).  
  
opModifyFillet (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

This is a direct editing operation that modifies or deletes fillets.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `faces`

| `Query`| The fillets to modify.  
  
  * `modifyFilletType`

| `ModifyFilletType`| Whether to change the fillet radii or remove them
altogether.  
  
  * `radius`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`modifyFilletType` is `CHANGE_RADIUS`._The
new radius.  
  
  * `reFillet`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Required if`modifyFilletType`
is `CHANGE_RADIUS`._`true` to reapply adjacent fillets. Default is `false`.  
  
opMoveFace (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

This is a direct editing operation that applies a transform to one or more
faces.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `moveFaces`

| `Query`| The faces to transform.  
  
  * `transform`

| `Transform`| The transform to apply to the face.  EXAMPLE

> `transform(vector(0, 0, 1) * inch)` will translate the face 1 inch along the
> world's z-axis.  
  
  * `reFillet`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` to attempt to
defillet `moveFaces` prior to the move and reapply the fillet after. Default
is `false`.  
  
  * `mergeFaces`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` to remove
redundant edges from moveFaces. Default is `true`.  
  
opOffsetFace (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

This is a direct editing operation that offsets one or more faces.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `moveFaces`

| `Query`| The faces to offset.  
  
  * `offsetDistance`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The positive or negative distance by which to offset.
EXAMPLE

> `0.1 * inch` will offset the face 0.1 inches, normal to the face.  
  
  * `reFillet`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` to attempt to
defillet `moveFaces` prior to the offset and reapply the fillet after. Default
is `false`.  
  
  * `mergeFaces`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` to remove
redundant edges from moveFaces. Default is `true`.  
  
opPattern (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Patterns input faces and/or bodies by applying transforms to them. The
original faces and bodies are preserved.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| Bodies and faces to pattern.  
  
  * `transforms`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of `Transform`s to apply to
`entities`. The transforms do not have to be rigid.  
  
  * `instanceNames`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of distinct non-empty
strings the same size as `transforms` to identify the patterned entities.
Similar to an `Id`, an instance names may consist only of letters, numbers,
and any of `+`, `-`, `/`, `_`.  
  
  * `copyPropertiesAndAttributes`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true (default),
copies properties and attributes to patterned entities.  
  
opPlane (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates a construction plane.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `plane`

| `Plane`| The plane to create.  EXAMPLE

> `plane(vector(0, 0, 6) * inch, vector(0, 0, 1))`  
  
  * `width`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Optional_ The side length of the construction plane, as
it is initially displayed.  
  
  * `height`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Optional_ The side length of the construction plane, as
it is initially displayed.  
  
  * `defaultType`

| `DefaultPlaneType`|  _Optional_ For Onshape internal use.  
  
opPolyline (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates a polyline passing through an array of 3D points.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `points`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of `Vector`s with length
units corresponding the points of the polyline. If the firstpoint is the same
as the last point, the polyline is closed.  EXAMPLE

>
>     [
>         vector( 1,  1,  1) * inch,
>         vector(-1,  1, -1) * inch,
>         vector( 1, -1, -1) * inch,
>         vector(-1, -1,  1) * inch,
>         vector( 1,  1,  1) * inch
>     ]
>  
  
  * `bendRadii`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ An array of
`ValueWithUnits`, corresponding to the bend radii at each point. The value at
index i corresponds to the bend at the point at index i + 1 in `points`. A
value of `0 * meter` means no bend at the corresponding point. Its size should
be `size(points) - 2` for an open polyline, `size(points) - 1` for a closed
one.  
  
opDropCurve (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Projects curves on a face.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `tools`

| `Query`| The edges to project.  
  
  * `targets`

| `Query`| The faces/bodies the edges are to be projected onto.  
  
  * `projectionType`

| `ProjectionType`| Projection method.  
  
  * `direction`

| `Vector`|  _Optional_ The direction in which to project the curve. Required
if projectionType is ProjectionType.DIRECTION.  
  
opIntersectFaces (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Intersect two faces, creating curves appropriately.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `tools`

| `Query`| First array of faces to intersect.  
  
  * `targets`

| `Query`| Second array of faces to intersect.  
  
opSphere (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates a sphere.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `radius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The radius of the sphere.  EXAMPLE

> `1 * inch`  
  
  * `center`

| `Vector`| The location of the center of the sphere.  EXAMPLE

> `vector(1, 1, 1) * inch`  
  
opSplineThroughEdges (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates a 3D spline curve representing a sequence of edges. The edges must
form a tangent-continuous chain.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `edges`

| `Query`| Edges to approximate.  
  
opSplitEdges (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Splits an array of edges with an entity or at specified parameters.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `edges`

| `Query`| Edges to split.  
  
  * `parameters`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of array of parameters.
Each edge gets split at the parameter values at the matching index in this
array.  
  
  * `splittingSurface`

| `Query`| A sheet body, a construction plane or a face to cut with. Can be
either a `Query` or a `Plane`. Either `splittingSurface` or `parameters` must
be specified but not both.  
  
  * `arcLengthParameterization`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true (default),
the parameter returned for edges measures distance along the edge, so `0.5` is
the midpoint. If false, use an arbitrary but faster-to-calculate
parameterization. Default is `true`.  
  
opPoint (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates a construction point (a `BodyType.POINT` with one vertex).

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `point`

| `Vector`| The location of the point.  EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 0, 1) * inch`  
  
  * `origin`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ For Onshape internal
use.  
  
opReplaceFace (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

This is a direct editing operation that replaces the geometry one or more
faces with that of another face or multiple adjacent faces, possibly with an
offset.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `replaceFaces`

| `Query`| The faces whose geometry to replace.  
  
  * `templateFace`

| `Query`| The face or multiple adjacent faces whose geometry to use as the
replacement.  
  
  * `offset`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Optional_ The positive or negative distance by which to
offset the resulting face.  
  
  * `oppositeSense`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, flip the
surface normal of the resulting face, which may be necessary to match the
surface normals of surrounding faces. Default is `false`.  
  
opRevolve (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Revolves edges and faces about an axis to produce sheet and solid bodies. The
edges and faces may abut, but not strictly intersect the axis.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| The edges and faces to revolve.  
  
  * `axis`

| `Line`| The axis around which to revolve.  EXAMPLE

> `line(vector(0, 0, 0) * inch, vector(0, 0, 1))`  
  
  * `angleForward`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The angle where the revolve ends relative to `entities`.
Normalized to the range \\[0, 2 PI).  EXAMPLE

> `30 * degree`  
  
  * `angleBack`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Optional_ The angle where the revolve starts relative to
`entities`. Normalized to the range \\[0, 2 PI). If `angleForward ==
angleBack`, the revolve is a full (360-degree) revolve. Defaults to `0`.  
  
opRuledSurface (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates a ruled surface along a set of paths. Direction of ruled surface is
specified with either `ruledDirection` or `angleFromFaces`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `path`

| `Query`| The edges that form the paths for the ruled surface.  
  
  * `cornerType`

| `RuledSurfaceCornerType`|  _Optional_ How corners in the ruled surface are
handled. Default is `RuledSurfaceCornerType.SPUN`.  
  
  * `useCubicInterpolation`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Ruled surface will
use a cubic interpolation if `true`. Otherwise, a linear interpolation will be
used. Default is `true`.  
  
  * `width`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The width of the ruled surface.  
  
  * `ruledSurfaceType`

| `RuledSurfaceType`| Specifies how the ruled surface is constructed.  
  
  * `ruledDirection`

| `Vector`|  _Required if`ruledSurfaceType` is `ALIGNED_WITH_VECTOR` _Ruled
surface will be aligned with this vector.  
  
  * `angle`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The angle at which the ruled surface meets reference faces
or `ruledDirection`. Default is `0`.  
  
  * `referenceFaces`

| `Query`|  _Required if`ruledSurfaceType` is `ANGLE_FROM_FACE` _A set of
faces from which to measure `angleFromFaces`.  
  
  * `vertexOverrides`

| `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|  
  
    * `vertex`

| `Query`| A vertex on the path where the override is applied.  
  
    * `ruledDirection`

| `Vector`| If specified, override will specify local direction of ruled
surface along this vector.  
  
    * `width`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`ruledDirection` != undefined or
`angleFromFaces` != undefined _Width of ruled surface at this override.  
  
    * `angleFromFaces`

| `ValueWithUnits`| If specified, override will specify direction as an angle
to reference faces. This is only applicable if angleFromFaces is also
specified at the top level.  
  
    * `upToEntity`

| `Query`| If specified, override will specify that ruled surface touches
upToEntity at override.  
  
opShell (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Create a shell of a solid body with uniform thickness. The bodies that are
passed in are hollowed, omitting the walls on the `face` entities passed in.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| The faces to shell and solid bodies to hollow.  
  
  * `thickness`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The distance by which to shell. Positive means shell
outward, and negative means shell inward.  
  
opSplitPart (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Split solid, sheet, and wire bodies with the given sheet body.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `targets`

| `Query`| The solid, sheet, and wire bodies to split.  
  
  * `tool`

| | A sheet body, a construction plane or a face to cut with. Can be either a `Query` or a `Plane`. If a planar face is passed in, the split will extend the plane infinitely unless `useTrimmed` is `true`.   
  
  * `keepTools`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If false, the tool
is deleted. Default is `false`.  
  
  * `keepType`

| `SplitOperationKeepType`|  _Optional_ Controls which pieces to keep. Default
is `KEEP_ALL`.  
  
  * `useTrimmed`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, the trimmed
face boundaries are used as the tool, rather than the underlying surface.
Default is `false`.  
  
opSplitFace (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Split faces with the given edges or faces.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `faceTargets`

| `Query`| The faces to split.  
  
  * `edgeTools`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ The edges to cut with.  
  
  * `projectionType`

| `ProjectionType`|  _Optional_ Edge projection method. Default is
`ProjectionType.NORMAL_TO_TARGET`  
  
  * `direction`

| `Vector`|  _Required if`edgeTools` are present and `projectionType` is
`ProjectionType.DIRECTION`._The projection direction.  
  
  * `faceTools`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ The faces to cut with.  
  
  * `bodyTools`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ The sheet or wire bodies to cut with.  
  
  * `keepToolSurfaces`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If `true`, the
`bodyTools` do not get consumed by the operation. Default is `true`.  
  
  * `planeTools`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ These planar faces are treated as infinite, rather than
bounded to the face extents.  
  
  * `extendToCompletion`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ if `true`, imprinted
edges are extended to complete split of faces. Default is `false`.  
  
  * `mutualImprint`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ if `true` and only
`bodyTools` are supplied target faces are used to split faces of `bodyTools`.
Default is `false`.  
  
SplitByIsoclineResult type

Map containing the results of splitting faces by their isoclines. Some faces
may have been split, others may have been left intact.

Value| Type| Description | `SplitByIsoclineResult` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `steepFaces`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of steep faces.  
  
  * `nonSteepFaces`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of non-steep faces.  
  
  * `boundaryEdges`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of edges at the transition
from non-steep faces to steep faces.  
  
opSplitByIsocline (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Split the given `faces` by isocline edges. Each isocline follows a path along
a face with a constant `angle` in the (-90, 90) degree range (e.g., lines of
latitude on a sphere). This `angle` is the face tangent plane's angle with
respect to the `direction` with its sign determined by the dot product of
`direction` and the face normal, and is analogous to the angle used in draft
analysis. Depending on the face geometry, there may be zero, one, or multiple
isoclines on each face. The isocline edges are created as new edges which
split the provided `faces`. The resulting faces are either steep (i.e., the
angle is less than the input `angle`) or non-steep. To instead leave the
original faces intact, you can first extract the faces with
opExtractSurface(), and create isoclines on the resulting surfaces. The
isocline edges can be queried for with `qCreatedBy`. The split orientation is
consistent such that the non-steep faces are always in "front" of the split,
and can be reliably queried for with `qSplitBy`:

EXAMPLE

>
>     const isoclineEdges = qCreatedBy(id + "splitByIsocline1",
> EntityType.EDGE);
>     const steepFaces = qSplitBy(id + "splitByIsocline1", EntityType.FACE,
> true);
>     const nonSteepFaces = qSplitBy(id + "splitByIsocline1", EntityType.FACE,
> false);
>  
>
> Note that `qSplitBy` will return only those faces that were split, while the
> returned `SplitByIsoclineResult` will include the intact faces as well.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `faces`

| `Query`| The faces on which to imprint isoclines.  
  
  * `direction`

| `Vector`| A reference direction.  
  
  * `angle`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The isocline angle with respect to the direction in the
(-90, 90) degree range.  
  
SplitBySelfShadowResult type

Map containing the results of splitting bodies by their shadow curves. Some
faces may have been split, others may have been left intact.

Value| Type| Description | `SplitBySelfShadowResult` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `visibleFaces`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of visible faces.  
  
  * `invisibleFaces`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of invisible faces.  
  
opSplitBySelfShadow (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Splits the faces of the given `bodies` into visible and invisible regions with
respect to the given `viewDirection`, creating shadow curves as necessary. A
shadow curve represents the transition of one face from visible to invisible.
Depending on the geometry, there may be zero, one, or more shadow curves per
face. The shadow curve edges are created as new edges which split the faces of
the provided `bodies`. Each of the resulting faces is wholly visible or wholly
invisible. Edge-on faces are considered invisible. The shadow curve edges can
be queried for with `qCreatedBy`. The split orientation is consistent such
that the visible faces are always in "front" of the split, and can be reliably
queried for with `qSplitBy`:

EXAMPLE

>
>     const shadowEdges = qCreatedBy(id + "splitBySelfShadow1",
> EntityType.EDGE);
>     const invisibleFaces = qSplitBy(id + "splitBySelfShadow1",
> EntityType.FACE, true);
>     const visibleFaces = qSplitBy(id + "splitBySelfShadow1",
> EntityType.FACE, false);
>  
>
> Note that `qSplitBy` will return only those faces that were split, while the
> returned `SplitBySelfShadowResult` will include the intact faces as well.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `bodies`

| `Query`| The bodies which cast shadows and on which to imprint shadow
curves.  
  
  * `viewDirection`

| `Vector`| The viewing direction.  
  
opSweep (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Sweep the given edges and faces along a path resulting in solid and/or sheet
bodies.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `profiles`

| `Query`| Edges and faces to sweep.  
  
  * `path`

| `Query`| Edges that comprise the path along which to sweep. The edges can be
in any order but must form a connected path.  
  
  * `keepProfileOrientation`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If `true`, the
profile maintains its original orientation as it is swept. If `false`
(default), the profile rotates to remain normal to the path.  
  
  * `lockFaces`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ Keep profile aligned to the normals of these faces.  
  
  * `lockDirection`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ Keep profile perpendicular to this direction.  
  
  * `profileControl`

| `ProfileControlMode`|  _Optional_ Default is NONE  EXAMPLE

> `ProfileControlMode.KEEP_ORIENTATION` the profile maintains its original
> orientation as it is swept.

EXAMPLE

> `ProfileControlMode.LOCK_DIRECTION` the profile is perpendicular to given
> direction.

EXAMPLE

> `ProfileControlMode.LOCK_FACES` the profile is aligned to the normals of
> given faces.  
  
opThicken (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Thicken sheet bodies and faces into solid bodies.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| The sheet bodies and faces to thicken.  
  
  * `thickness1`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The distance by which to thicken in the direction along
the normal.  
  
  * `thickness2`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The distance by which to thicken in the opposite
direction.  
  
  * `keepTools`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Default is `true`.
If `false` the operation will attempt to delete the `entities`. The operation
will not delete sheet bodies unless the sheet body or all faces of the sheet
body are selected. The operation will not delete sketches or solid bodies.  
  
opTransform (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Applies a given transform to one or more bodies. To make transformed copies of
bodies, use `opPattern`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `bodies`

| `Query`| The bodies to transform.  
  
  * `transform`

| `Transform`| The transform to apply.  EXAMPLE

> `transform(vector(0, 0, 1) * inch)` will translate the body 1 inch along the
> world's z-axis.

EXAMPLE

> `rotationAround(myLine, 30 * degree)` will rotate around a `Line` object.

EXAMPLE

> `scaleUniformly(factor)` will scale uniformly about the origin.

EXAMPLE

> `scaleUniformly(factor, point)` will scale uniformly about a given point.

EXAMPLE

> `toWorld(cSys)` will (somewhat counterintuitively) perform a transform such
> that geometry on the world's origin and axes will move to the `cSys` origin
> and axes.

EXAMPLE

> `fromWorld(cSys)` will (somewhat counterintuitively) perform a transform
> such that geometry on the `cSys` origin and axes will move to the world
> origin and axes.

EXAMPLE

> `transform2 * transform1` will perform `transform1`, followed by
> `transform2`.  
  
opWrap (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Wraps or unwraps faces from one surface onto another. The location and
orientation of the wrapped faces on the destination surface are controlled by
the `anchorPoint` and `anchorDirection` of the `source` and `destination`
`WrapSurface`s. The `entities` of the operation are not affected, the result
of this operation is a new set of surface bodies or imprinted edges
representing the wrapped or unwrapped faces. Faces that are topologically
connected will remain topologically connected in the result body for
`WrapType.SIMPLE` and `WrapType.TRIM`. This operation currently supports
wrapping from a plane onto a cylinder or a cone, and unwrapping from a
cylinder or a cone onto a plane.

(Formerly `opRoll`)

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `wrapType`

| `WrapType`| The type of wrap to execute.  EXAMPLE

> `WrapType.SIMPLE` wraps `entities` around the infinite definition of
> `destination`.  
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| Faces to wrap from `source` to `destination`.  
  
  * `source`

| `WrapSurface`| The surface to wrap from. All `entities` must lie on this
surface.  
  
  * `destination`

| `WrapSurface`| The surface to wrap onto. Must be defined using the `face`
field for `WrapType.TRIM` or `WrapType.IMPRINT`.  
  
  * `orientWithDestination`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true (default),
the normals of the resulting surface will point in the same direction as the
`destination`. If false, the normals of the resulting surface will point in
the opposite direction. For the purpose of this parameter, the normals of a
`WrapSurface` defined by an infinite `Cylinder` are always pointing outwards.  
  
## primitives

cube (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Create a cube of a specified size, with one corner on the origin.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `sideLength`

| `ValueWithUnits`| EXAMPLE

> `1 * inch`  
  
sphere (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature creating a sphere. Internally, calls `opSphere`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `center`

| `Query`| A vertex query marking the sphere's center.  
  
  * `radius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| EXAMPLE

> `1 * inch`  
  
fCuboid (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Create a simple rectangular prism between two specified corners.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `corner1`

| `Vector`| EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 0, 0) * inch`  
  
  * `corner2`

| `Vector`| EXAMPLE

> `vector(1, 1, 1) * inch`  
  
fCylinder (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Create a simple cylindrical solid between two points, with a specified radius.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `topCenter`

| `Vector`| A 3D length vector in world space.  EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 0, 0) * inch`  
  
  * `bottomCenter`

| `Vector`| A 3D length vector in world space.  EXAMPLE

> `vector(1, 1, 1) * inch`  
  
  * `radius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| EXAMPLE

> `1 * inch`  
  
fCone (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Create a solid cone, possibly truncated.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `topCenter`

| `Vector`| EXAMPLE

> `vector(1, 1, 1) * inch`  
  
  * `bottomCenter`

| `Vector`| EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 0, 0) * inch`  
  
  * `topRadius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The radius at the top center.  EXAMPLE

> `1 * inch`  
  
  * `bottomRadius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The radius at the bottom center.  EXAMPLE

> `0 * inch` produces a standard, non-truncated cone.  
  
fEllipsoid (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Create an ellipsoid (that is, a sphere scaled independently along the three
major axes).

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `center`

| `Vector`| EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 0, 0) * inch`  
  
  * `radius`

| `Vector`| The three radii, as measured along the x, y, and z axes.  EXAMPLE

> `vector(0.5 * inch, 1 * inch, 2 * inch)`  
  
## sketch

Functions used to create sketches, and add entities to sketches.

A sketch used in FeatureScript generally has the following form:

    
    
    var sketch1 = newSketch(context, id + "sketch1", {
            "sketchPlane" : qCreatedBy(makeId("Top"), EntityType.FACE)
    });
    skRectangle(sketch1, "rectangle1", {
            "firstCorner" : vector(0, 0),
            "secondCorner" : vector(1, 1)
    });
    skSolve(sketch1);
    extrude(context, id + "extrude1", {
            "entities" : qSketchRegion(id + "sketch1"),
            "endBound" : BoundingType.BLIND,
            "depth" : 0.5 * inch
    });
    

A `Sketch` object should always be created first, with either `newSketch` or
`newSketchOnPlane`.

Next, any number of sketch entities may be added to the sketch using the
functions in this module. The inputs to sketch functions usually involve 2D
`Vector`s, which are positions relative to the sketch plane's origin and
x-axis. To create such a point based on a projected 3D point in world space,
use `worldToPlane(Plane, Vector)`.

When building sketches in FeatureScript, constraints may be added, but are
almost always unnecessary, since you already have the ability to place the
entities precisely where you intend them to be.

Finally, the sketch is solved and added to the context by calling `skSolve`.
As a result of `skSolve`, all edges of the sketch will become `WIRE` bodies in
the context. Any regions enclosed in the sketch will become `SURFACE` bodies
in the context. Any vertices which are not edge endpoints (such as points
created by `skPoint` or the center point of `skCircle`) will become `POINT`
bodies in the context. These newly created bodies can be queried for and used
in all subsequent operations and features.

Sketch type

A `Sketch` object represents a Onshape sketch, to which sketch entities can be
added.

Sketches can be created by calls to `newSketch` or `newSketchOnPlane`.

canBeSketch (value) predicate

Typecheck for builtin `Sketch`

isIdForSketch (context is Context, id is Id)

Check whether an `Id` represents a Sketch operation.

newSketch (context is Context, id is Id, value is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns Sketch

Create a new sketch on an existing planar entity. The sketch coordinate system
follows the canonical plane orientation and the sketch origin is the
projection of the world origin onto the plane.

To make a sketch in the coordinate system of an arbitrary `Plane`, use
`newSketchOnPlane`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `sketchPlane`

| `Query`| A Query for a single, planar entity.  EXAMPLE

> `qCreatedBy(makeId("Top"), EntityType.FACE)` to sketch on default "Top"
> plane.  
  
  * `disableImprinting`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Prevents
`sketchPlane` from imprinting on the sketch. Default is `false`.  
  
newSketchOnPlane (context is Context, id is Id, value is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns Sketch

Create a new sketch on a custom plane, specified by a `Plane` object. The
sketch coordinate system will match the coordinate system of the plane.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `sketchPlane`

| `Plane`| EXAMPLE

> `plane(vector(0, 0, 0) * inch, vector(0, 0, 1))` to sketch on the world XY
> plane.  
  
skSolve (sketch is Sketch)

Solve any constraints in the sketch and add all sketch entities form the
`sketch` to its context.

Even if there are no constraints, a sketch must be solved before its entities
are created.

skPoint (sketch is Sketch, pointId is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string),
value is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Add a point to a sketch.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `position`

| `Vector`| EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 1) * inch`  
  
Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `pointId`

| |   
  
skLineSegment (sketch is Sketch, lineId is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), value is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Add a line segment to a sketch.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `start`

| `Vector`| EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 0) * inch`  
  
  * `end`

| `Vector`| EXAMPLE

> `vector(1, 1) * inch`  
  
  * `construction`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` for a
construction line  
Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `startId`

| |   
  
  * `endId`

| |   
  
skText (sketch is Sketch, textId is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string),
value is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Add a text rectangle to a sketch.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `text`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| A string of text to write. May
contain newlines (encoded as `\n`).  
  
  * `fontName`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| A font name, with extension ".ttf"
or ".otf". To change font weight, replace "-Regular" with "-Bold", "-Italic",
or "-BoldItalic". Must be one of the following fonts: EXAMPLE

> `"OpenSans-Regular.ttf"` Sans-serif font. Default if no match is found.

EXAMPLE

> `"AllertaStencil-Regular.ttf"` Stencil font. No bold/italic options.

EXAMPLE

> `"Arimo-Regular.ttf"` Sans-serif font.

EXAMPLE

> `"DroidSansMono.ttf"` Monospaced sans-serif font. No bold/italic options.

EXAMPLE

> `"NotoSans-Regular.ttf"` Sans-serif font.

EXAMPLE

> `"NotoSansCJKjp-Regular.otf"` Japanese font. No italic options.

EXAMPLE

> `"NotoSansCJKkr-Regular.otf"` Korean font. No italic options.

EXAMPLE

> `"NotoSansCJKsc-Regular.otf"` Chinese (simplified) font. No italic options.

EXAMPLE

> `"NotoSansCJKtc-Regular.otf"` Chinese (traditional) font. No italic options.

EXAMPLE

> `"NotoSerif-Regular.ttf"` Serif font.

EXAMPLE

> `"RobotoSlab-Regular.ttf"` Sans-serif font. No italic options.

EXAMPLE

> `"Tinos-Regular.ttf"` Serif font. Metrically compatible with Times New
> Roman.  
  
  * `construction`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` for a
construction line  
  
  * `firstCorner`

| `Vector`|  _Optional_ One corner of the rectangle into which the text will
be placed. Text will start at the left of the rectangle and extend to the
right, overflowing the right if necessary. The first line of text will fill
the height of the rectangle, with subsequent lines below the rectangle (or
above if mirrored vertically).  EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 0) * inch`  
  
  * `secondCorner`

| `Vector`|  _Optional_ The other corner of the rectangle into which the text
will be placed. Text will start at the left of the rectangle and extend to the
right, overflowing the right if necessary. The first line of text will fill
the height of the rectangle, with subsequent lines below the rectangle (or
above if mirrored vertically).  EXAMPLE

> `vector(1, 1) * inch`  
  
  * `mirrorHorizontal`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` for flipping
text horizontally  
  
  * `mirrorVertical`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` for flipping
text vertically  
Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `textId`

| |   
  
skImage (sketch is Sketch, imageId is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string),
value is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Add an image rectangle and return ids of corner points.

To use an image uploaded in your document, import the image (possibly into a
namespace).

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `blobInfo`

| `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| EXAMPLE

> `BLOB_DATA` will use the image from an image file imported into this Feature
> Studio.

EXAMPLE

> `MyImage::BLOB_DATA` will use an image imported into the namespace `MyImage`
> (e.g. using `MyImage::import(...)`)  
  
  * `firstCorner`

| `Vector`| One corner of the rectangle into which the image will be placed.
EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 0) * inch`  
  
  * `secondCorner`

| `Vector`| The other corner of the rectangle into which the image will be
placed.  EXAMPLE

> `vector(1, 1) * inch`  
  
Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `imageId`

| |   
  
skCircle (sketch is Sketch, circleId is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), value is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Add a circle to a sketch.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `center`

| `Vector`| EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 0) * inch`  
  
  * `radius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| EXAMPLE

> `1 * inch`  
  
  * `construction`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` for a
construction line  
Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `centerId`

| |   
  
skEllipse (sketch is Sketch, ellipseId is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), value is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Add an ellipse to a sketch.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `center`

| `Vector`| EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 0) * inch`  
  
  * `majorRadius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| EXAMPLE

> `2 * inch`  
  
  * `minorRadius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| EXAMPLE

> `1 * inch`  
  
  * `majorAxis`

| `Vector`|  _Optional_ A unitless 2D direction, specifying the orientation of
the major axis  
  
  * `construction`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` for a
construction line  
Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `centerId`

| |   
  
skArc (sketch is Sketch, arcId is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string),
value is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Add an arc through three points to a sketch.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `start`

| `Vector`| EXAMPLE

> `vector(1, 0) * inch`  
  
  * `mid`

| `Vector`| EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 1) * inch`  
  
  * `end`

| `Vector`| EXAMPLE

> `vector(-1, 0) * inch`  
  
  * `construction`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` for a
construction line  
Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `startId`

| |   
  
  * `endId`

| |   
  
skEllipticalArc (sketch is Sketch, arcId is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), value is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Add an elliptical arc to a sketch. The ellipse has a period of 1, a parameter
of 0 at the major axis and 0.25 at the minor axis. The arc is drawn
counterclockwise from the start point to the end point.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `center`

| `Vector`| EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 0) * inch`  
  
  * `majorAxis`

| `Vector`| The direction, in sketch coordinates, in which the major axis of
the ellipse lies.  EXAMPLE

> `normalize(vector(1, 1))`  
  
  * `minorRadius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| A non-negative value with length units.  EXAMPLE

> `1 * inch`  
  
  * `majorRadius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| A non-negative value with length units. Does not need to
be greater than the minor radius.  EXAMPLE

> `2 * inch`  
  
  * `startParameter`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| The parameter of the start point.
EXAMPLE

> `0`  
  
  * `endParameter`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| The parameter of the end point.
EXAMPLE

> `0.25`  
  
  * `construction`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` for a
construction line  
Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `startId`

| |   
  
  * `endId`

| |   
  
skFitSpline (sketch is Sketch, splineId is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), value is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Create an interpolated spline through the given points.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `points`

| | An array of points. If the start and end points are the same, the spline is closed.  EXAMPLE

>
>     [
>         vector( 0,  0) * inch,
>         vector( 0, -1) * inch,
>         vector( 1,  1) * inch,
>         vector(-1,  0) * inch,
>         vector( 0,  0) * inch
>     ]
>  
  
  * `parameters`

| | _Optional_ An array of doubles, parameters corresponding to the points.   
  
  * `construction`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` for a
construction line  
  
  * `startDerivative`

| `Vector`|  _Optional_ A 2D `Vector` with length units that specifies the
derivative at the start of the resulting spline. Ignored if spline is closed.  
  
  * `endDerivative`

| `Vector`|  _Optional_ A 2D `Vector` with length units that specifies the
derivative at the end of the resulting spline. Ignored if spline is closed.  
  
skBezier (sketch is Sketch, bezierId is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), value is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Create a Bezier curve from the given control points.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `points`

| | An array of points.  EXAMPLE

>
>     [
>            vector( 0, 0) * inch,
>            vector( 0, 1) * inch,
>            vector( 1, 1) * inch,
>            vector( 1, 0) * inch
>     ]
>  
  
  * `construction`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` for a
construction line  
  
skRectangle (sketch is Sketch, rectangleId is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), value is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Add a rectangle (four line segments, properly constrained) to a sketch.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `firstCorner`

| `Vector`| EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 0) * inch`  
  
  * `secondCorner`

| `Vector`| EXAMPLE

> `vector(1, 1) * inch`  
  
  * `construction`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` for a
construction line  
  
skRegularPolygon (sketch is Sketch, polygonId is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), value is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Add a regular polygon to the sketch. Unconstrained.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `center`

| `Vector`| EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 0) * inch`  
  
  * `firstVertex`

| `Vector`| Distance to the center determines the radius.  EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 1) * inch`  
  
  * `sides`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| Number of polygon sides. Must be
an integer 3 or greater.  
  
  * `construction`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` for a
construction line  
  
skPolyline (sketch is Sketch, polylineId is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), value is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Add a polyline (line segments, optionally with constrained endpoints) or a
polygon to a sketch.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `points`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of points, each a `Vector`
of two lengths. If first and last point are the same, the polyline is closed.
EXAMPLE

>
>     [
>         vector( 0,  0) * inch,
>         vector( 0, -1) * inch,
>         vector( 1,  1) * inch,
>         vector(-1,  0) * inch,
>         vector( 0,  0) * inch
>     ]
>  
  
  * `construction`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` for a
construction line. Default false.  
  
  * `constrained`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` if constraints
should be created. Default false.  
  
skConstraint (sketch is Sketch, constraintId is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), value is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Add a constraint.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `constraintType`

| `ConstraintType`|  
  
  * `length`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Optional_ For constraints that require a length. Must
have length units.  
  
  * `angle`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Optional_ For constraints that require a angle. Must
have angle units.  
  
## query

Functions for constructing queries. Features that take queries as inputs
should re-export this module.

Queries are used to refer to topological entities (vertices, edges, faces, and
bodies) that FeatureScript operation and evaluation functions work on. A query
is a map that contains instructions for how to find entities. For example, a
query for all edges in a context looks like `qEverything(EntityType.EDGE)`.
Many queries can take subqueries as arguments, allowing for more complex
nested queries.

Queries in general do not contain a list of entities in any form. Rather, they
contain criteria that specify a subset of the topological entities in a
context. To get an array of the entities (if any) which match a query in a
context, use `evaluateQuery`. There is no need to evaluate a query before
passing it into a function, including any of the Standard Library's operation
and evaluation functions.

There are two general types of queries: state-based and historical. State-
based queries select entities based on the model state, e.g. "All edges
adjacent to a cylindrical face which touches this point." Historical queries
select entities based on the model history, e.g. "the edge that was generated
by feature `extrude_1_id` from sketch vertex `vertex_id` from sketch
`sketch_id`." State-based queries cannot refer to entities that have been
deleted. Most automatically-generated queries are historical, while queries
more commonly used in manually written code are state-based.

Query type

A `Query` identifies a specific subset of a context's entities (points, lines,
planes, and bodies).

The fields on a Query map depend on its `QueryType`, and may include one or
more subqueries.

Value| Type| Description | `Query` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `queryType`

| `QueryType`|  
  
  * `entityType`

| `EntityType`|  _Optional_  
  
canBeQuery (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Query`

BodyType enum

Specifies the topological type of a body.

All bodies have `EntityType.BODY`, but will generally own many entities of
other `EntityType`s.

For example, the result of an extrude with `NewBodyOperationType.NEW` is a
body. This body will have `BodyType.SOLID` for a solid extrude, and
`BodyType.SHEET` for a surface extrude. This extrude operation will create
many geometric entities in the context (faces, edges, or vertices), which are
owned by the body, and have the `BodyType` of their owning body.

See also

`qBodyType`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`SOLID` | A three-dimensional part (e.g. the result of a solid extrude)   
`SHEET` | A two-dimensional sheet body (e.g. a sketch region, or the result of a surface extrude)   
`WIRE` | A one-dimensional curve (e.g. a sketch line or curve, or the result of opHelix)   
`POINT` | A zero-dimensional point (e.g. a sketch point, or the result of opPoint)   
`MATE_CONNECTOR` | A part studio mate connector.   
`COMPOSITE` | A composite part body, which can contain bodies of any other type   
  
EntityType enum

Specifies the topological type of a given entity. Used in several queries as a
filter, or on any query explicitly with `qEntityFilter`

Thus, one can obtain all the vertices in a part studio with
`qEverything(EntityType.VERTEX)`, and can obtain all the vertices attached to
solid bodies with `qBodyType(qEverything(EntityType.VERTEX), BodyType.SOLID)`

A query for every part in a part studio is
`qBodyType(qEverything(EntityType.BODY), BodyType.SOLID)`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`VERTEX` | A zero-dimensional point or vertex   
`EDGE` | A one-dimensional line, curve, or edge   
`FACE` | A two-dimensional surface, planar face, or non-planar face   
`BODY` | A solid, surface, wire, or point body   
  
AdjacencyType enum

Specifies the adjacency type of queried entities.

See also

`qAdjacent`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`VERTEX` | Entities share at least a vertex   
`EDGE` | Entities share at least an edge   
  
GeometryType enum

Specifies the geometric type of queried entities.

See also

`qGeometry`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`LINE` | A straight line or edge   
`CIRCLE` | A circle of constant radius   
`ARC` | A segment of a circle   
`OTHER_CURVE` | Any one-dimensional entity which is not described above (e.g. splines, ellipses, etc.)   
`PLANE` | A construction plane or planar face   
`CYLINDER` | A surface which forms the side of a right circular cylinder   
`CONE` | A surface which forms the side of a right circular cone   
`SPHERE` | A surface which forms the boundary of a sphere   
`TORUS` | A surface which forms the boundary of a torus   
`REVOLVED` | A surface constructed by revolving a curve around an axis (unless it is simplified to one of the types above)   
`EXTRUDED` | A surface constructed by extruding or sweeping a curve along a line (unless it is simplified to one of the types above)   
`OTHER_SURFACE` | Any two-dimensional entity which is not described above (e.g. the side of an arbitrary loft)   
`ALL_MESH` | A surface or a body that is fully mesh or an edge between two mesh surfaces.   
`MIXED_MESH` | A body that contains both mesh and non-mesh surfaces or an edge between a mesh and a non-mesh surfaces.   
`MESH` | A surface that is mesh, a body that contains mesh surfaces or an edge bordering a mesh surface.   
  
CapType enum

Specifies which cap queried entities should belong to.

See also

`qCapEntity`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`START` | finds entities belonging to the start cap   
`END` | finds entities belonging to the end cap   
`EITHER` | finds entities belonging to either cap   
  
ConstructionObject enum

Specifies whether the entity was created for construction (e.g. a construction
line or construction plane).

Can be used in a filter on a query parameter to only allow certain selections:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "Edges to use", "Filter" : EntityType.EDGE && ConstructionObject.NO }
    definition.edges is Query;
    

See also

`qConstructionFilter`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`YES` | Matches only entities which are created for construction   
`NO` | Matches only entities which are not created for construction   
  
SMFlatType enum

Specifies whether an entity appears in the sheet metal flat view, or the main
view.

See also

`qSheetMetalFlatFilter`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`YES` | Matches entities which belong to a flattened sheet metal part.   
`NO` | Matches entities which do not belong to a flattened sheet metal part.   
  
SMFormType enum

Specifies whether an entity is an artifact of a sheet metal form feature on
flat pattern.

See also

`qSheetMetalFormFilter`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`YES` | Matches entities which are artifacts of a sheet metal form feature on flat pattern.   
`NO` | Matches entities which are not artifacts of a sheet metal form feature on flat pattern.   
  
AllowMeshGeometry enum

Specifies whether we allow meshes. Default is `NO`.

Can be used in a filter on a query parameter to only allow certain selections:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "Bodies", "Filter" : EntityType.BODY && AllowMeshGeometry.YES }
    definition.body is Query;
    

Value| Description  
---|---  
`YES` | Allow meshes   
`NO` | Disallow meshes   
  
AllowFlattenedGeometry enum

Specifies whether we allow flat entities. Default is `NO`.

Can be used in a filter on a query parameter to only allow certain selections:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "Bodies", "Filter" : EntityType.BODY && AllowFlattenedGeometry.YES }
    definition.body is Query;
    

Value| Description  
---|---  
`YES` | Allow flat entities   
`NO` | Disallow flat entities   
  
ActiveSheetMetal enum

Specifies whether the entities should belong to an active sheet metal model.

Can be used in a filter on a query parameter to only allow certain selections:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "Sheet metal bodies", "Filter" : EntityType.BODY && ActiveSheetMetal.YES }
    definition.body is Query;
    

Value| Description  
---|---  
`YES` | matches only entities which belong to an active sheet metal model   
`NO` | matches only entities which do not belong to an active sheet metal model   
  
SheetMetalDefinitionEntityType enum

Specifies geometry corresponding to a certain type of topological entity in
the sheet metal [master body](/FsDoc/library.html#module-
sheetMetalAttribute.fs) for active sheet metal models.

Can be used in a filter on a query parameter to only allow certain selections:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "Sheet metal definition edges", "Filter" : SheetMetalDefinitionEntityType.EDGE }
    definition.entities is Query;
    

Value| Description  
---|---  
`VERTEX` | matches entities defined by a sheet metal master body vertex. This includes vertices, edges, and faces at the corners, bend ends, fillets, and chamfers of sheet metal models.   
`EDGE` | matches entities defined by a sheet metal master body edge. This includes edges and faces along the sides of sheet metal walls.   
`FACE` | matches entities defined by a sheet metal master body face. This includes faces of sheet metal walls.   
  
ModifiableEntityOnly enum

Specifies whether we allow modifiable only entities. It is default to `NO`.

Can be used in a filter on a query parameter to only allow certain selections:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "Bodies", "Filter" : EntityType.BODY && ModifiableEntityOnly.YES }
    definition.body is Query;
    

See also

`qModifiableEntityFilter`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`YES` | Only allow modifiable entities   
`NO` | Allow both modifiable and unmodifiable entities   
  
AllowEdgePoint enum

Specifies whether we allow edge points. Default is `YES`.

Can be used in a filter on a query parameter to only allow certain selections:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "Corners", "Filter" : EntityType.VERTEX && AllowEdgePoint.NO }
    definition.body is Query;
    

Value| Description  
---|---  
`YES` | Allow edge points   
`NO` | Disallow edge points   
  
MeshGeometry enum

Specifies whether the entities are mesh geometries.

See also

`qMeshGeometryFilter`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`YES` | Matches only entities (edges, faces, and bodies) which are meshes   
`NO` | Matches only entities (edges, faces, and bodies) which are not meshes   
  
SketchObject enum

Specifies whether the entity is a part of a sketch.

Can be used in a filter on a query parameter to only allow certain selections:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "Sketch curves", "Filter" : EntityType.EDGE && SketchObject.YES }
    definition.curves is Query;
    

See also

`qSketchFilter`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`YES` | Matches only entities which are part of a sketch   
`NO` | Matches only entities which are not part of a sketch   
  
QueryFilterCompound enum

A set of convenience filters, which are expanded during precondition
processing. Can be used as a filter on query parameters, just like their
corresponding expansions:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "Axis", "Filter" : QueryFilterCompound.ALLOWS_AXIS }
    definition.axis is Query;
    

Value| Description  
---|---  
`ALLOWS_AXIS` | Equivalent to `GeometryType.LINE || GeometryType.CIRCLE || GeometryType.ARC || GeometryType.CYLINDER || BodyType.MATE_CONNECTOR` and can be processed with `evAxis`  
`ALLOWS_DIRECTION` | Equivalent to `GeometryType.LINE || GeometryType.CIRCLE || GeometryType.ARC || GeometryType.CYLINDER || GeometryType.PLANE` and can be processed with `extractDirection`  
`ALLOWS_PLANE` | Equivalent to `GeometryType.PLANE || BodyType.MATE_CONNECTOR` and can be processed with `evPlane`  
`ALLOWS_VERTEX` | Equivalent to `EntityType.VERTEX || BodyType.MATE_CONNECTOR` and can be processed with `evVertexPoint`  
  
CompareType enum

Specifies a method of comparing two items.

See also

`qFilletFaces`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`EQUAL` |   
`LESS` |   
`LESS_EQUAL` |   
`GREATER` |   
`GREATER_EQUAL` |   
  
Consumed enum

Specifies whether to filter or allow bodies (and their vertices, edges, and
faces) consumed by closed composite parts.

See also

`qConsumed`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`YES` | Matches only bodies that are consumed   
`NO` | Matches only bodies that are not consumed   
  
CompositePartType enum

Specifies whether to filter or allow closed or open composite parts.

See also

`qCompositePartTypeFilter`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`OPEN` | Matches only open composite parts   
`CLOSED` | Matches only closed composite parts   
  
InContextObject enum

Specifies whether an entity is from an assembly context.

Can be used in a filter on a query parameter to only allow certain selections:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "Edges to use", "Filter" : EntityType.EDGE && InContextObject.NO }
    definition.edges is Query;
    

Value| Description  
---|---  
`YES` | Matches only entities which are from an assembly context   
`NO` | Matches only entities which are not from an assembly context   
  
qNothing () returns Query

An empty query, which does not resolve to any entities.

qEverything (entityType is EntityType) returns Query

A query for all entities of a specified `EntityType` in the context.

See also

`qAllModifiableSolidBodies`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`entityType` | `EntityType`|  _Optional_  
  
qEverything () returns Query

A query for all entities in the context.

qAllNonMeshSolidBodies () returns Query

A query for all solid bodies that do not have mesh geometry.

qAllSolidBodies () returns Query

A query for all solid bodies.

qAllModifiableSolidBodiesNoMesh () returns Query

A query for all solid bodies that do not have mesh geometry or in context
geometry, i.e. every non-mesh-containing part displayed in the Part Studio's
"Parts" list.

See also

`qAllModifiableSolidBodies`

qAllModifiableSolidBodies () returns Query

A query for all modifiable solid bodies, including mesh-containing bodies.

See also

`qAllModifiableSolidBodiesNoMesh`

qNthElement (queryToFilter is Query, n is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns Query

A query for one entity in `queryToFilter` at a specified index. The order of
entities resolved by a query is deterministic but arbitrary.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`queryToFilter` | `Query`| A query which resolves to at least n+1 entities   
`n` | `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| Zero-based index of entity in `queryToFilter`.  EXAMPLE

> `0` indicates the first entity

EXAMPLE

> `-1` indicates the last entity  
  
qEntityFilter (queryToFilter is Query, entityType is EntityType) returns Query

A query for entities in a `queryToFilter` which match a given `EntityType`.

qHasAttribute (name is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns Query

Query for all entities marked with an attribute with name `name`

See also

`setAttribute`

qHasAttribute (queryToFilter is Query, name is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns Query

Query for all entities in `queryToFilter` marked with an attribute with name
`name`

See also

`setAttribute`

qHasAttributeWithValue (name is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), value)
returns Query

Query for all entities marked with an attribute with name `name` and value
exactly equal to `value`

See also

`setAttribute`

qHasAttributeWithValue (queryToFilter is Query, name is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), value) returns Query

Query for all entities in `queryToFilter` marked with an attribute with name
`name` and value exactly equal to `value`

See also

`setAttribute`

qHasAttributeWithValueMatching (name is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), attributePattern is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns Query

Query for all entities marked with an attribute with name `name` and a map
value matching every key-value pair in the provided `attributePattern` map.

See also

`setAttribute`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`attributePattern` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| EXAMPLE

>
>     {
>         "key1" : valueToMatch,
>     }
>  
  
qHasAttributeWithValueMatching (queryToFilter is Query, name is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), attributePattern is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns Query

Query for all entities in `queryToFilter` marked with an attribute with name
`name` and a map value matching every key-value pair in the provided
`attributePattern` map.

See also

`setAttribute`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`attributePattern` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| EXAMPLE

>
>     {
>         "key1" : valueToMatch,
>     }
>  
  
qAttributeFilter (queryToFilter is Query, attributePattern) returns Query

Note: This query is used only for legacy unnamed attributes, which are still
supported but no longer reccommended. See the
[Attributes](library.html#module-attributes.fs) module for details.

A query for entities in a `queryToFilter` which have been assigned a legacy
unnamed attribute matching a given `attributePattern`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`attributePattern` | | Will only resolve to queries whose legacy unnamed attributes match the type (and possibly the values) of this pattern. If attributePattern has a type tag, will only match attributes with that same type tag.  EXAMPLE

> `{} as MyCustomType` will match all attributes with type tag `MyCustomType`

If the attribute has no type tag (i.e. it is a [standard
type](variables.html#standard-types) like `string` or `map`), will match all
attributes with that same standard type.  EXAMPLE

> `"asdf"` will match all `string` attributes.

EXAMPLE

> `{}` will match all `map` attributes.

If the attribute is a map, will only match maps which have identical values
for every key-value pair in the pattern  EXAMPLE

> `{ "odd" : true }` matches all unnamed `map` attributes that have a field
> `"odd"` whose value is `true`.

EXAMPLE

> `{ "odd" : true } as MyCustomType` matches all unnamed `map` attributes with
> the that have a field `"odd"` whose value is `true`.  
  
qAttributeQuery (attributePattern) returns Query

Note: This query is used only for legacy unnamed attributes, which are still
supported but no longer reccommended. See the
[Attributes](library.html#module-attributes.fs) module for details.

A query for all entities which have been assigned a legacy unnamed attribute
matching a given `attributePattern`. Equivalent to
`qAttributeFilter(qEverything(), attributePattern)`

qCreatedBy (featureId is Id, entityType is EntityType) returns Query

A query for all the entities created by a feature or operation. The feature is
given by its feature id, which was passed into the the operation function in
order to create the feature.

An entity is "created by" an operation if the entity was added to the context
as part of that operation. Entities modified, but not created, by an operation
are not returned by this query.

If an entity is split (as in a split part operation), the resulting entities
are "created by" both the original entity's creator and the split part
operation.

If two entities are merged (as in a union of coincident faces), that entity is
"created by" the creators of each merged entity, as well as the merging
operation itself.

If a sketch's feature id is specified, returns a query for all sketch regions,
points, and wire bodies created by the specified sketch.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`featureId` | `Id`| The `Id` of the specified feature.  EXAMPLE

> `id + "extrude1"`  
  
`entityType` | `EntityType`|  _Optional_  
  
qCreatedBy (featureId is Id) returns Query

qCreatedBy (features is FeatureList) returns Query

qCreatedBy (features is FeatureList, entityType is EntityType) returns Query

qCapEntity (featureId is Id, capType is CapType, entityType is EntityType)
returns Query

A query for start/end cap vertex, edge, and face entities created by
`featureId`. Cap entities are produced by extrude, revolve, sweep, loft and
thicken features

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`entityType` | `EntityType`|  _Optional_  
  
qCapEntity (featureId is Id, capType is CapType) returns Query

qNonCapEntity (featureId is Id, entityType is EntityType) returns Query

A query for vertex, edge, and face entities created by `featureId` that are
not cap entities. Cap entities are produced by extrude, revolve, sweep, loft
and thicken features

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`entityType` | `EntityType`|  _Optional_  
  
qNonCapEntity (featureId is Id) returns Query

qOpHoleProfile (featureId is Id, filters is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns Query

A query for the profile edges or vertices created by an `opHole` operation.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`featureId` | `Id`| The `Id` of the specified operation.  EXAMPLE

> `id + "hole1"`  
  
`filters` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `name`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`|  _Optional_ Filter the query for
profiles with a given name. See `name` field of `HoleProfile`.  
  
  * `identity`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ Filter the query for the hole associated with the given
identity entity. See `identities` parameter of `opHole`.  
  
qOpHoleProfile (featureId is Id) returns Query

qOpHoleFace (featureId is Id, filters is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns Query

A query for the hole faces created by an `opHole` operation.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`featureId` | `Id`| The `Id` of the specified operation.  EXAMPLE

> `id + "hole1"`  
  
`filters` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `name`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`|  _Optional_ Filter the query for
faces with a given name. See `faceNames` field of `HoleDefinition`.  
  
  * `identity`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ Filter the query for the hole associated with the given
identity entity. See `identities` parameter of `opHole`.  
  
qOpHoleFace (featureId is Id) returns Query

qToleranceFilter (queryToFilter is Query) returns Query

qUnion (subqueries is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns Query

A query for entities which match any of a list of queries.

`qUnion` is guaranteed to preserve order. That is, entities which match
queries earlier in the `subqueries` input list will also be listed earlier in
the output of `evaluateQuery`.

qUnion (query1 is Query, query2 is Query) returns Query

qUnion (query1 is Query, query2 is Query, query3 is Query) returns Query

qUnion (query1 is Query, query2 is Query, query3 is Query, query4 is Query)
returns Query

qIntersection (subqueries is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
Query

A query for entities which match all of a list of queries. qIntersection
preserves the order of the first subquery.

qIntersection (query1 is Query, query2 is Query) returns Query

qSubtraction (query1 is Query, query2 is Query) returns Query

A query for entities which match `query1`, but do not match `query2`.
qSubtraction preserves the order of `query1`.

qSymmetricDifference (query1 is Query, query2 is Query) returns Query

A query for entities which match either `query1` or `query2`, but not both.

qOwnedByBody (body is Query, entityType is EntityType) returns Query

A query for all of the entities (faces, vertices, edges, and bodies) in a
context which belong to a specified body or bodies.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`entityType` | `EntityType`|  _Optional_  
  
qOwnedByBody (body is Query) returns Query

qOwnedByBody (queryToFilter is Query, body is Query) returns Query

A query for all of the entities which match a `queryToFilter`, and belong to
the specified body or bodies.

qOwnerBody (entities is Query) returns Query

A query for each body that any of the given `entities` belong to.

If a body is passed in, the result will include that body itself.

qContainedInCompositeParts (compositeParts is Query) returns Query

A query for each part contained in `compositeParts`.

qCompositePartsContaining (bodies is Query) returns Query

A query for each composite part containing `bodies`.

qCompositePartsContaining (bodies is Query, compositePartType is
CompositePartType) returns Query

A query for each composite part of the given type containing `bodies`.

qFlattenedCompositeParts (entities is Query) returns Query

A query for non-composite entities in `entities` and constituents of composite
parts in `entities`.

qConsumed (queryToFilter is Query, consumed is Consumed) returns Query

A query for all entities in `queryToFilter` which are consumed by any closed
composite part, or all entities of `queryToFilter` which are not consumed by
any closed composite part.

qCompositePartTypeFilter (queryToFilter is Query, compositePartType is
CompositePartType) returns Query

A query for all bodies in `queryToFilter` which are either open or closed
composite parts, depending on the second parameter.

qSourceMesh (selectedMeshVertices is Query, entityType is EntityType) returns
Query

A query for each mesh element that any `selectedMeshVertices` belong to.
`selectedMeshVertices` should be the point bodies created when a user selects
a mesh vertex. Mesh vertices which have not been selected cannot be queried in
FeatureScript

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`selectedMeshVertices` | `Query`| One or more mesh vertices whose owning elements are queried.   
`entityType` | `EntityType`| The type of resulting entities. Can be EntityType.BODY, EntityType.FACE or EntityType.EDGE.   
  
qSourceMesh (selectedMeshVertices is Query) returns Query

**Deprecated:** _Use`qSourceMesh` with `EntityType.BODY` _

qAdjacent (seed is Query, adjacencyType is AdjacencyType, entityType is
EntityType) returns Query

A query for entities that are adjacent to the given `seed` entities.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`seed` | `Query`| One or more entities whose adjacent neighbors are queried. The result does not include the original `seed` entities (unless they are adjacent to other `seed` entities)   
`adjacencyType` | `AdjacencyType`| EXAMPLE

> `AdjacencyType.VERTEX` will return entities that share at least a vertex
> with the `seed` entities.

EXAMPLE

> `AdjacencyType.EDGE` will return entities that share at least an edge with
> the `seed` entities. For example, `qAdjacent(whiteSquareOnChessBoard,
> AdjacencyType.EDGE)` would return all four surrounding black squares, but
> not the four diagonal white squares.  
  
`entityType` | `EntityType`|  _Optional_ The type of resulting entities   
  
qAdjacent (seed is Query, adjacencyType is AdjacencyType) returns Query

qVertexAdjacent (query is Query, entityType is EntityType) returns Query

**Deprecated:** _Use`qAdjacent` with `AdjacencyType.VERTEX` _

qEdgeAdjacent (query is Query, entityType is EntityType) returns Query

**Deprecated:** _Use`qAdjacent` with `AdjacencyType.EDGE` _

qEdgeTopologyFilter (queryToFilter is Query, edgeTopologyType is EdgeTopology)
returns Query

A query for edges in a `queryToFilter` which match a given `EdgeTopology`.

qEdgeVertex (edgeQuery is Query, atStart is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean))

A query for the start or end vertices of edges.

qGeometry (queryToFilter is Query, geometryType is GeometryType) returns Query

A query for all entities in `queryToFilter` with a specified `GeometryType`.

qBodyType (queryToFilter is Query, bodyType is BodyType) returns Query

A query for all entities in `queryToFilter` which are bodies of the a
specified `BodyType`, or are owned by bodies with the specified `BodyType`

qBodyType (queryToFilter is Query, bodyTypes is
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns Query

A query for all entities in `queryToFilter` with any of a list of `BodyType`s.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`bodyTypes` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of `BodyType`s.   
  
qConstructionFilter (queryToFilter is Query, constructionFilter is
ConstructionObject) returns Query

A query for all construction entities or all non-construction entities in
`queryToFilter`.

See also

`ConstructionObject`

qActiveSheetMetalFilter (queryToFilter is Query, activeSheetMetal is
ActiveSheetMetal) returns Query

A query for all entities in `queryToFilter` belonging to an active sheet metal
part.

See also

`ActiveSheetMetal`

qSheetMetalFlatFilter (queryToFilter is Query, filterFlat is SMFlatType)
returns Query

A query for all entities in `queryToFilter` belonging to a flattened sheet
metal part.

See also

`SMFlatType`

qSMFlatFilter (subquery is Query, filterFlat is SMFlatType) returns Query

**Deprecated:** _Use`qSheetMetalFlatFilter` _

qSheetMetalFormFilter (queryToFilter is Query, filterForm is SMFormType)
returns Query

A query for all entities in `queryToFilter` that are artifacts of a sheet
metal form feature on flat pattern.

See also

`SMFormType`

qPartsAttachedTo (sheetMetalEntities is Query) returns Query

A query for parts to which `sheetMetalEntities` are attached (e.g. sheet metal
bend line entities are attached to a flattened sheet metal part)

qCorrespondingInFlat (entitiesInFolded is Query) returns Query

A query for entities in sheet metal flattened body corresponding to any
`entitiesInFolded` which are part of 3D sheet metal bodies

qSMDefinitionEntityFilter (queryToFilter is Query, entityType is EntityType)
returns Query

A query for sheet metal definition entities in a `queryToFilter` which match a
given `EntityType`.

See also

`SheetMetalDefinitionEntityType`

qMeshGeometryFilter (queryToFilter is Query, meshGeometryFilter is
MeshGeometry) returns Query

A query for all mesh entities or all non-mesh entities in `queryToFilter`.

A body is considered a "mesh entity" if any of its faces or edges have mesh
geometry.

See also

`MeshGeometry`

qModifiableEntityFilter (queryToFilter is Query) returns Query

A query for all modifiable entities in `queryToFilter`.

An entity is considered non-modifiable if it is an in-context entity.

See also

`ModifiableEntityOnly`

`qAllModifiableSolidBodies`

qSketchFilter (queryToFilter is Query, sketchObjectFilter is SketchObject)
returns Query

A query for all sketch entities, or all non-sketch entities in
`queryToFilter`.

qParallelPlanes (queryToFilter is Query, referencePlane is Plane,
allowAntiparallel is [boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)) returns Query

A query for all planar face entities that are parallel to the
`referencePlane`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`referencePlane` | `Plane`| The plane to reference when checking for parallelism.   
`allowAntiparallel` | `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether to also return entities that are antiparallel.   
  
qParallelPlanes (queryToFilter is Query, referencePlane is Plane) returns
Query

A query for all planar face entities in `queryToFilter` that are parallel to
the `referencePlane`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`referencePlane` | `Plane`| The plane to reference when checking for parallelism.   
  
qParallelPlanes (queryToFilter is Query, normal is Vector, allowAntiparallel
is [boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)) returns Query

A query for all planar face entities in `queryToFilter` that are parallel to a
plane specified by the `normal` vector.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`normal` | `Vector`| The normal vector to reference when checking for parallelism.   
`allowAntiparallel` | `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether to also return entities that are antiparallel.   
  
qPlanesParallelToDirection (queryToFilter is Query, direction is Vector)
returns Query

A query for all planar faces in `queryToFilter` that are parallel to the given
direction vector (i.e., the plane normal is perpendicular to `direction`).

qFacesParallelToDirection (queryToFilter is Query, direction is Vector)
returns Query

A query for all faces in `queryToFilter` that are parallel to the given
direction vector e.g. if it is a planar face, the plane normal is
perpendicular to `direction` if it is a cylindrical face, the axis is parallel
to `direction` if it is an extruded face, the extrude direction is parallel to
`direction`

qParallelPlanes (queryToFilter is Query, normal is Vector) returns Query

A query for all planar face entities in `queryToFilter` that are parallel to a
plane specified by the `normal` vector.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`normal` | `Vector`| The normal vector to reference when checking for parallelism.   
  
qConvexConnectedFaces (seed is Query) returns Query

A query for a set of faces connected to `seed` via convex edges, flood-filling
across any number of convex edges.

A convex edge is an edge which forms a convex angle along the full length of
the edge. A convex angle is strictly less than 180 degrees for flat faces, or
faces with negative curvature. If one face has positive curvature, and the
other has flat or positive curvature, a convex angle is less than or equal to
180 degrees. Thus, the two bounding edges of an exterior fillet are considered
convex.

qConcaveConnectedFaces (seed is Query) returns Query

A query for a set of faces connected to `seed` via concave edges, flood-
filling across any number of concave edges.

A concave edge is an edge which forms a concave angle along the full length of
the edge. A concave angle is strictly greater than 180 degrees for flat faces,
or faces with positive curvature. If one face has negative curvature, and the
other has flat or negative curvature, a concave angle is less than or equal to
180 degrees. Thus, the two bounding edges of an interior fillet are considered
concave.

qTangentConnectedFaces (seed is Query) returns Query

A query for a set of faces connected to `seed` via tangent edges, flood-
filling across any number of tangent edges.

A tangent edge is an edge joining two faces such that the surface direction is
continuous across the edge, at every point along the full length of the edge.

qTangentConnectedFaces (seed is Query, angleTolerance is ValueWithUnits)
returns Query

A query for a set of faces connected to `seed` via tangent edges, flood-
filling across any number of tangent edges.

A tangent edge is an edge joining two faces such that the surface direction is
continuous across the edge, up to the given `angleTolerance`, at every point
along the full length of the edge.

qTangentConnectedEdges (seed is Query) returns Query

A query for a chain of tangent edges connected to `seed` via tangent vertices,
chaining across any number of tangent vertices.

qLoopEdges (seed is Query) returns Query

A query for a set of edges defining a loop. If the `seed` has laminar edges,
this query will extend to include all laminar loops that contain any `seed`
edges. If the `seed` has faces, the result will include the loops forming the
outer boundary of the joined faces.

The order of entities returned by this function is arbitrary (and generally
not predictable). Use `constructPath` to order the results.

qParallelEdges (queryToFilter is Query, direction is Vector) returns Query

A query for all linear edges in `queryToFilter` which are parallel (or anti-
parallel) to the given `direction`.

qParallelEdges (queryToFilter is Query, edges is Query) returns Query

A query to find all linear edges in `queryToFilter` which are parallel (or
anti-parallel) to any linear edge in `edges`.

qLoopBoundedFaces (faceAndEdge is Query) returns Query

Given a face and an edge, query for all faces bounded by the given face, on
the side of the given edge.

For example, to select an entire pocket, pass in the face which surrounds the
pocket, and an edge of the face which touches that pocket.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`faceAndEdge` | `Query`| Should match a face and an edge. If multiple faces and edges match, used the first face and the first edge.   
  
qFaceOrEdgeBoundedFaces (faceAndBoundingEntities is Query) returns Query

Given a seed face and bounding entities, matches all adjacent faces inside the
bounding entities, expanding from the seed face.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`faceAndBoundingEntities` | `Query`| A Query for the seed face, followed by any boundary faces or edges. The seed face must be first, so a `qUnion` should be used to guarantee the order.   
  
qHoleFaces (seed is Query) returns Query

Given a single face inside a hole or hole-like geometry, returns all faces of
that hole.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`seed` | `Query`| A query for a single face inside the hole.   
  
qSketchRegion (featureId is Id, filterInnerLoops is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)) returns Query

A query for all fully enclosed, 2D regions created by a sketch.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`featureId` | `Id`| The feature id of the `Sketch` being queried.   
`filterInnerLoops` | `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Specifies whether to exclude sketch regions fully contained in other sketch regions. A region whose border has a vertex or edge on the outside boundary is not considered "contained." Default is false.   
  
qSketchRegion (featureId is Id) returns Query

qUniqueVertices (vertices is Query) returns Query

A query that filters out duplicate vertices. When duplicates are found, the
vertex with the lowest deterministic ID is used.

qMateConnectorsOfParts (parts is Query) returns Query

A query for all mate connectors owned by `parts`.

qFilletFaces (facesToCompareTo is Query, compareType is CompareType) returns
Query

A query for fillet faces of radius equal to, less than or equal to, or greater
than or equal to the input faces. If `facesToCompareTo` does not match one or
more fillet faces, the resulting query will not match any faces. Will find the
fillet radius from each face and compare to find faces of all fillets on that
body that satisfy the compareType.

If `facesToCompareTo` resolves to multiple fillet faces, all are matched
independently. That is, `qFilletFaces(qUnion([q1, q2], compareType))` returns
the same thing as `qUnion([qFilletFaces(q1, compareType), qFilletFaces(q2,
compareType)])`.

qMatching (referenceEntities is Query) returns Query

Matches any faces or edges within owner bodies of entities in
`referenceEntities` which are geometrically identical (same size and shape) to
the face or edge in `referenceEntities`.

If `referenceEntities` resolves to multiple entities, all are matched
independently. That is, `qMatching(qUnion([q1, q2]))` returns the same thing
as `qUnion([qMatching(q1), qMatching(q2)])`.

qPatternInstances (featureId is Id, instanceNames is
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), entityType is EntityType) returns Query

A query for entities created by a specific instance or instances of an
`opPattern` operation.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`featureId` | `Id`| The `Id` of the specified feature.  EXAMPLE

> `id + "pattern1"`  
  
`instanceNames` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| The names of the instances to query for, a subset of the instanceNames passed into the `opPattern` operation.   
  
qPatternInstances (featureId is Id, instanceName is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), entityType is EntityType) returns
Query

qDependency (dependentEntities is Query) returns Query

A query for the true dependency of the given `dependentEntities`. For
instance, the true dependency of the extruded body will be the face or sketch
edges of the profile from which it is extruded.

qLaminarDependency (dependentEntities is Query) returns Query

A query for the true dependency of the given `dependentEntities`, specifically
for use with wire edges that have been created from laminar edges. If the
immediate dependency is not laminar then it will track back until it reaches a
laminar dependency (if there is one).

qContainsPoint (queryToFilter is Query, point is Vector) returns Query

A query for all entities (bodies, faces, edges, or points) in `queryToFilter`
containing a specified point.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`point` | `Vector`| A 3D point, in world space.   
  
qIntersectsLine (queryToFilter is Query, line is Line) returns Query

A query for all entities (bodies, faces, edges, or points) in `queryToFilter`
touching a specified infinite line.

qIntersectsPlane (queryToFilter is Query, plane is Plane) returns Query

A query for all entities (bodies, faces, edges, or points) in `queryToFilter`
touching a specified infinite plane.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`plane` | `Plane`| EXAMPLE

> `plane(vector(0, 0, 0) * meter, vector(0, 0, 1))`  
  
qInFrontOfPlane (queryToFilter is Query, plane is Plane) returns Query

A query for all entities (bodies, faces, edges, or points) in `queryToFilter`
in front of a specified infinite plane. Entities intersecting the plane will
not be resolved. Only entities completely on one side or coincident with the
plane will be selected. Use `flip(plane)` to query entities on the other side
of the plane. For example, for the XY plane through the origin with the normal
(0, 0, 1), `qInFrontOfPlane` will resolve the vertices (1, 1, 0) and (1, 1, 1)
but not the vertex (1, 1, -1).

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`plane` | `Plane`| EXAMPLE

> `plane(vector(0, 0, 0) * meter, vector(0, 0, 1))`  
  
qCoincidesWithPlane (queryToFilter is Query, plane is Plane) returns Query

A query for all entities (bodies, faces, edges, or points) in `queryToFilter`
coinciding with a specified infinite plane.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`plane` | `Plane`| EXAMPLE

> `plane(vector(0, 0, 0) * meter, vector(0, 0, 1))`  
  
qWithinRadius (queryToFilter is Query, point is Vector, radius is
ValueWithUnits) returns Query

A query for all entities (bodies, faces, edges or points) in `queryToFilter`
that are within a specified radius from a point.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`point` | `Vector`| The point from which to check distance from.   
`radius` | `ValueWithUnits`| The distance away from the point.   
  
qClosestTo (queryToFilter is Query, point is Vector) returns Query

A query for the entity in `queryToFilter` closest to a point.

In the case of a tie, resolves to all entities within `TOLERANCE.zeroLength`
of being the closest.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`point` | `Vector`| A position vector for the point to find entities closest to.   
  
qFarthestAlong (queryToFilter is Query, direction is Vector) returns Query

A query for the entity in `queryToFilter` farthest along a `direction` in
world space. In the case of a tie, resolves to all entities within
`TOLERANCE.zeroLength` of being the farthest.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`direction` | `Vector`| A vector for the direction to find the entity farthest away.   
  
qLargest (queryToFilter is Query) returns Query

A query to find the largest entity (by length, area, or volume) in
`queryToFilter`.

If `queryToFilter` contains entities of different dimensionality (e.g. both
solid bodies and faces), only entities of the highest dimension are
considered. Entities are compared by length, area or volume. Multiple entities
may be returned if they tie within tolerance.

qSmallest (queryToFilter is Query) returns Query

A query to find the smallest entity (by length, area, or volume) in
`queryToFilter`.

If `queryToFilter` contains entities of different dimensionality (e.g. solid
bodies and faces), only entities of the highest dimension are considered.
Entities are compared by length, area or volume. Multiple entities may be
returned if they tie within tolerance.

qEdgeConvexityTypeFilter (queryToFilter is Query, edgeconvexitytype is
EdgeConvexityType) returns Query

A query that filters given edges by convexity.

Returns a query containing all edges from `queryToFilter` that have convexity
type `edgeConvexityType`.

See also

`evEdgeConvexity` .

dummyQuery (operationId is Id, entityType is EntityType) returns Query

qSplitBy (featureId is Id, entityType, backBody is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)) returns Query

Given the id of a split feature, get entities of a given `EntityType` on the
front or the back side of the split. For a split by face or part, the front
denotes the body in the direction of the split tool's surface normal, and the
back denotes the body opposite the normal. For a split by isocline, the front
denotes non-steep faces and edges, and the back denotes steep entities.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`featureId` | `Id`| EXAMPLE

> `id + "split1"`  
  
`backBody` | `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| EXAMPLE

> `false` indicates the entities in the front.

EXAMPLE

> `true` indicates the entities in the back.  
  
sketchEntityQuery (operationId is Id, entityType, sketchEntityId is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns Query

Gets the wire body entities created for a specific sketch entity. If the
sketch id created multiple sketch entities, will return all the wire bodies.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`operationId` | `Id`| Id of the sketch feature.   
`entityType` | | EXAMPLE

> `EntityType.EDGE` to match the edges on the wire bodies.

EXAMPLE

> `EntityType.BODY` to match the bodies themselves.

EXAMPLE

> `undefined` to match both.  
  
`sketchEntityId` | `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| Sketch id.   
  
evaluateQuery (context is Context, query is Query) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns an array of queries for the individual entities in a context which
match a specified query. The returned array contains exactly one transient
query for each matching entity at the time of the call. If the context is
modified, the returned queries may become invalid and no longer match an
entity.

It is usually not necessary to evaluate queries, since operation and
evaluation functions can accept non-evaluated queries. Rather, the evaluated
queries can be used to count the number of entities (if any) that match a
query, or to iterate through the list to process entities individually.

The order of entities returned by this function is arbitrary (and generally
not predictable) except in the case of a `qUnion` query. In that case, the
entities matched by earlier queries in the argument to `qUnion` are returned
first.

areQueriesEquivalent (context is Context, first is Query, second is Query)
returns [boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Returns `true` if the supplied queries evaluate to the same set of entities.
This function is order-invariant, so if the two queries evaluate to the same
entities, but in a different order, the function will still return `true`.

isQueryEmpty (context is Context, query is Query) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Returns `true` if `query` evaluates to nothing. Equivalent to
`evaluateQuery(context, query) == []` or `size(evaluateQuery(context, query))
== 0`, but faster than either of those approaches if the query is not empty.

evaluateQueryCount (context is Context, query is Query) returns
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)

Returns the number of entities returned by the supplied query. Equivalent to
`size(evaluateQuery(context, query))`, but faster.

## evaluate

Evaluation functions return information about the topological entities in the
context, like bounding boxes, tangent planes, projections, and collisions.
Evaluation functions take a context and a map that specifies the computation
to be performed and return a ValueWithUnits, a FeatureScript geometry type
(like `Line` or `Plane`), or a special type like `DistanceResult`. They may
also throw errors if a query fails to evaluate or the input is otherwise
invalid.

evApproximateCentroid (context is Context, arg is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns Vector

Find the centroid of an entity or group of entities. This is equivalent to the
center of mass for a constant density object. Warning: This is an approximate
value and it is not recommended to use this for modeling purposes that will be
negatively affected in case the approximation changes. Consider using the
center of a bounding box instead.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| The entities to take the center of mass of.  
  
MassProperties type

The result of an `evApproximateMassProperties` call.

Value| Type| Description | `MassProperties` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `mass`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The total mass.  
  
  * `centroid`

| `Vector`| The center of mass with respect to the given reference frame, or
with respect to the origin if a reference frame is not specified.  
  
  * `inertia`

| `MatrixWithUnits`| The 3D inertia tensor, with units of mass * length ^ 2.
Evaluated with respect to the reference frame, or with respect to the centroid
if a reference frame is not specified.  
  
  * `volume`

| `ValueWithUnits`| Total volume. Only returned for solid bodies.  
  
  * `area`

| `ValueWithUnits`| Total area. Only returned for faces.  
  
  * `length`

| `ValueWithUnits`| Total length. Only returned for edges.  
  
  * `count`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| Total count. Only returned for
vertices.  
  
evApproximateMassProperties (context is Context, arg is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns MassProperties

Calculates approximate mass properties of an entity or group of entities.
Returns mass, centroid, inertia tensor, and volume/area/length/count for
bodies/faces/edges/vertices, respectively. Warning: These are approximate
values and it is not recommended to use them for modeling purposes that will
be negatively affected in case the approximation changes.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| The entities of which to compute mass properties. Only entities of
the highest dimensionality will be considered.  
  
  * `density`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The density of the entities, with appropriate units.
EXAMPLE

> `1 * kilogram / meter ^ 3` could be the density of 3D solid bodies

EXAMPLE

> `1 * kilogram / meter ^ 2` could be the density of 2D faces or sheet bodies

EXAMPLE

> `1 * kilogram / meter` could be the density of 1D edges or wire bodies

EXAMPLE

> `1 * kilogram` could be the mass of each 0D vertex or point body  
  
  * `referenceFrame`

| `CoordSystem`|  _Optional_ Optional coordinate system. Defaults to the
centroid with world axes for the inertia tensor, and world coordinates for the
centroid.  
  
evArea (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
ValueWithUnits

Return the total area of all the entities. If no matching 2D faces are found
the total area will be zero.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`|  
  
evAxis (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
Line

If the query finds one entity with an axis -- a line, circle, plane, cylinder,
cone, sphere, torus, mate connector, or revolved surface -- return the axis.
Otherwise throw an exception.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `axis`

| `Query`|  
  
evBox3d (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
Box3d

Find a bounding box around an entity, optionally with respect to a given
coordinate system. There is also an option to use a faster but less accurate
method.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `topology`

| `Query`| The entity to find the bounding box of.  
  
  * `cSys`

| `CoordSystem`|  _Optional_ The coordinate system to use (if not the standard
coordinate system).  
  
  * `tight`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Get the tightest
possible bounding box. Defaults to `true`.  EXAMPLE

> `true` for a bounding box precisely at the extents of the given entities
> (and no bigger).

EXAMPLE

> `false` for a bounding box at least as big as the given entities, using a
> faster algorithm.  
  
evCollision (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Find collisions between tools and targets. Each collision is a map with field
`type` of type `ClashType` and fields `target`, `targetBody`, `tool`, and
`toolBody` of type `Query`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `tools`

| `Query`|  
  
  * `targets`

| `Query`|  
  
evCornerType (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Return the type of corner found at a vertex of a sheet metal model

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `vertex`

| `Query`|  
Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `cornerType`

| `SMCornerType`| the type of the corner  
  
  * `primaryVertex`

| `Query`| the vertex that defines the corner  
  
  * `allVertices`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| array of transient queries for all
definition vertices associated with the corner  
Throws| Additional info  
---|---  
`[GBTErrorStringEnum.BAD_GEOMETRY](GBTErrorStringEnum.BAD_GEOMETRY)`| The
query does not evaluate to a single vertex  
  
evCurveDefinition (context is Context, arg is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Given a query for a curve, return a `Circle`, `Ellipse`, `Line`, or
`BSplineCurve` value for the curve. If the curve is none of these types,
return a map with unspecified contents.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `edge`

| `Query`| The curve to evaluate.  
  
  * `returnBSplinesAsOther`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, do not
return B-spline curves (to avoid the associated time cost). Default is false.  
Throws| Additional info  
---|---  
`[GBTErrorStringEnum.INVALID_INPUT](GBTErrorStringEnum.INVALID_INPUT)`| The
first resolved entity was not an edge.  
`[GBTErrorStringEnum.CANNOT_RESOLVE_ENTITIES](GBTErrorStringEnum.CANNOT_RESOLVE_ENTITIES)`|
Input entities are invalid or there are no input entities.  
  
evApproximateBSplineCurve (context is Context, arg is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns BSplineCurve

Given a query for a curve, return its approximation (or exact representation
if possible) as a B-spline. The options `forceCubic` and `forceNonRational`
may be used to restrict the type of spline that is returned, but even if these
options are false, a cubic non-rational spline may be returned.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `edge`

| `Query`| The curve to approximate.  
  
  * `forceCubic`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, a cubic
spline will be returned. Defaults to false.  
  
  * `forceNonRational`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, a non-
rational spline will be returned. Defaults to false.  
  
  * `tolerance`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Optional_ Specifies the desired
approximation tolerance: the maximum distance (in meters) between the original
curve and the returned spline representation. Default is 1e-6, minimum is
1e-8, and maximum is 1e-2.  
  
DistanceResult type

The result of an `evDistance` call -- information about the extremal distance
and the attaining point / line / entity.

Value| Type| Description | `DistanceResult` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `distance`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The minimal or maximal distance.  
  
  * `sides`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of 2 maps, containing
information about where the extremum was found for each side. Each map has a:
`point` (Vector) : The position in world space that is closest or farthest to
the other side. The `distance` field is measured between the two values of
`point`. `index` (integer) : the index into the line or point array or into
the query results, if a query is passed in. `parameter` (number or length or
array of two numbers) : If the `index` refers to an edge, the `parameter` is a
number between 0 and 1 (unless `extend` for that side was passed in). It is in
the form that `evEdgeTangentLine` and `evEdgeCurvature` consume (with
`arcLengthParameterization` set to the same value that was passed into
`evDistance`). If the `index` refers to a point, the `parameter` is 0. If the
`index` refers to a `Line`, the `parameter` is a length representing the
distance along the direction. If the `index` refers to a face, the `parameter`
is a 2D `Vector` in the form that `evFaceTangentPlane` consumes. If this face
is a mesh or a plane, the parameter is a 2D `Vector` of zeroes. If the `index`
refers to a `Plane`, the `parameter` is a 2D `Vector` representing the lengths
along the plane's x and y axes.  
  
evDistance (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns DistanceResult

Computes the minimum or maximum distance between geometry on `side0` and
geometry on `side1`. "Geometry" means entities, points, or lines. When the
minimum or the maximum is not uniquely defined, ties will be broken
arbitrarily.

EXAMPLE

> `evDistance(context, { "side0" : vector(1, 2, 3) * meter, "side1" : query
> }).distance` returns the minimum distance from any entity returned by
> `query` to the point `(1, 2, 3) meters`.

EXAMPLE

> `result = evDistance(context, { "side0" : qEverything(EntityType.VERTEX),
> "side1" : qEverything(EntityType.VERTEX), "maximum" : true })` computes the
> pair of vertices farthest apart.
> `qNthElement(qEverything(EntityType.VERTEX), result.sides[0].index)` queries
> for one of these vertices.

See also

`DistanceResult`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `side0`

| | One of the following: A query, or a point (3D Length Vector), or a `Line`, or a `Plane`, or an array of points, or an array of `Line`s, or an array of `Plane`s.  EXAMPLE

> `qNthElement(qEverything(EntityType.FACE), 0)` or `vector(1, 2, 3) * meter`
> or `line(vector(1, 0, 1) * meter, vector(1, 1, 1)` or `plane(vector(1,1,1) *
> meter, vector(0,0,1), vector(1,0,0))`.  
  
  * `extendSide0`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If `true` and side0
is a query, bodies will be ignored and edges and faces extended to their
possibly infinite underlying surfaces. Defaults to `false`.  
  
  * `side1`

| | Like `side0`.   
  
  * `extendSide1`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Like `extendSide0`.  
  
  * `maximum`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If `true`, compute
the maximum instead of the minimum. Defaults to `false`. Not allowed to be
`true` if a line is passed in in either side or if either `extend` is true.  
  
  * `arcLengthParameterization`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true (default),
the parameter returned for edges measures distance along the edge, so `0.5` is
the midpoint. If false, use an arbitrary but faster-to-calculate
parameterization. This field only controls the parameter returned for edges.
It does not control the parameter returned for points, `Line`s, faces, or
`Plane`s.  
  
  * `useFaceParameter`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ For Onshape internal
use.  
  
RaycastResult type

Map containing the results of one collision between a ray and an entity.

Value| Type| Description | `RaycastResult` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `entity`

| `Query`| A query for the entity hit by the ray.  
  
  * `entityType`

| `EntityType`| The type of the entity.  
  
  * `parameter`

| | Parameters for where the ray hit the entity. A unitless 2-vector for a face, a number for an edge, else undefined.   
  
  * `intersection`

| `Vector`| Intersection point.  
  
  * `distance`

| `ValueWithUnits`| Distance of the intersection point from the ray origin.  
  
evRaycast (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Detect intersections between a ray and the given entities.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| A query for target entities. If bodies are provided, the result
will contain intersections for individual entities owned by the body.  
  
  * `ray`

| `Line`| The ray to intersect the entities. Because the passed-in `Line` is
interpreted as a ray, by default, intersections with entities "behind" the ray
origin are not detected. `includeIntersectionsBehind` can be set to `true` if
those intersections are desired.  EXAMPLE

> `line(vector(0, 0, 0) * inch, vector(1, 0, 0))` specifies the positive
> x-axis  
  
  * `closest`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Get only the closest
intersection with any of the entities. Defaults to `true`.  
  
  * `includeIntersectionsBehind`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Return intersections
that are behind the ray origin. Defaults to `false`. Cannot be set to `true`
if `closest` is `true`.  
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of `RaycastResult`s for each
intersection in front of the ray, ordered from closest to farthest.  
  
evEdgeConvexity (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns EdgeConvexityType

Return the convexity type of the given edge, `CONVEX`, `CONCAVE`, `SMOOTH`, or
`VARIABLE`. If the edge is part of a body with inside and outside convex and
concave have the obvious meanings.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `edge`

| `Query`|  
Throws| Additional info  
---|---  
`[GBTErrorStringEnum.TOO_MANY_ENTITIES_SELECTED](GBTErrorStringEnum.TOO_MANY_ENTITIES_SELECTED)`|
The query evaluates to more than one entity  
`[GBTErrorStringEnum.BAD_GEOMETRY](GBTErrorStringEnum.BAD_GEOMETRY)`| The
query does not evaluate to a single edge.  
  
EdgeCurvatureResult type

The result of an `evEdgeCurvature` call -- a coordinate system for the Frenet
frame and the curvature defined at a point

Value| Type| Description | `EdgeCurvatureResult` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `frame`

| `CoordSystem`| The frame. The Z vector is the tangent, the X vector is the
normal and the Y vector is the binormal  
  
  * `curvature`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The curvature (inverse length units).  
  
evEdgeCurvature (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns EdgeCurvatureResult

Return a Frenet frame along an edge, with curvature. If the curve has zero
curvature at an evaluated point then the returned normal and binormal are
arbitrary and only the tangent is significant.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `edge`

| `Query`| The curve to use  EXAMPLE

> `qNthElement(qEverything(EntityType.EDGE), 1)`  
  
  * `parameter`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| A number in the range 0..1
indicating the point along the curve to evaluate the frame at.  
  
  * `arcLengthParameterization`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true (default),
the parameter measures distance along the edge, so `0.5` is the midpoint. If
false, use an arbitrary but faster-to-evaluate parameterization. The
parameterization is identical to that used by `evEdgeTangentLines`. Results
obtained with arcLengthParameterization will have lower accuracy due to
approximation.  
  
  * `face`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ If present, the edge orientation used is such that
walking along the edge with "up" being the `face` normal will keep `face` to
the left. Must be adjacent to `edge`.  
Throws| Additional info  
---|---  
`[GBTErrorStringEnum.NO_TANGENT_LINE](GBTErrorStringEnum.NO_TANGENT_LINE)`| A
frame could not be calculated for the specified input.  
  
evEdgeCurvatures (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Return Frenet frames along an edge, with curvature. If the curve has zero
curvature at an evaluated point then the returned normal and binormal are
arbitrary and only the tangent is significant.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `edge`

| `Query`| The curve to use  EXAMPLE

> `qNthElement(qEverything(EntityType.EDGE), 1)`  
  
  * `parameters`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of numbers in the range
0..1 indicating points along the curve to evaluate frames at.  
  
  * `arcLengthParameterization`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true (default),
the parameter measures distance along the edge, so `0.5` is the midpoint. If
false, use an arbitrary but faster-to-evaluate parameterization. The
parameterization is identical to that used by `evEdgeTangentLines`. Results
obtained with arcLengthParameterization will have lower accuracy due to
approximation.  
  
  * `face`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ If present, the edge orientation used is such that
walking along the edge with "up" being the `face` normal will keep `face` to
the left. Must be adjacent to `edge`.  
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of `EdgeCurvatureResult`s.  
Throws| Additional info  
---|---  
`[GBTErrorStringEnum.NO_TANGENT_LINE](GBTErrorStringEnum.NO_TANGENT_LINE)`| A
frame could not be calculated for the specified input.  
  
curvatureFrameTangent (curvatureResult is EdgeCurvatureResult) returns Vector

Returns the tangent vector of a curvature frame

Return type| Description  
---|---  
`Vector`| A unit 3D vector in world space.  
  
curvatureFrameNormal (curvatureResult is EdgeCurvatureResult) returns Vector

Returns the normal vector of a curvature frame

Return type| Description  
---|---  
`Vector`| A unit 3D vector in world space.  
  
curvatureFrameBinormal (curvatureResult is EdgeCurvatureResult) returns Vector

Returns the binormal vector of a curvature frame

Return type| Description  
---|---  
`Vector`| A unit 3D vector in world space.  
  
evEdgeTangentLine (context is Context, arg is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns Line

Return one tangent `Line` to an edge.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `edge`

| `Query`| The curve to use  EXAMPLE

> `qNthElement(qEverything(EntityType.EDGE), 1)`  
  
  * `parameter`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| A number in the range 0..1
indicating a point along the curve to evaluate the tangent at.  
  
  * `arcLengthParameterization`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true (default),
the parameter measures distance along the edge, so `0.5` is the midpoint. If
false, use an arbitrary but faster-to-evaluate parameterization.  
  
  * `face`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ If present, the edge orientation used is such that
walking along the edge with "up" being the `face` normal will keep `face` to
the left. Must be adjacent to `edge`.  
Throws| Additional info  
---|---  
`[GBTErrorStringEnum.NO_TANGENT_LINE](GBTErrorStringEnum.NO_TANGENT_LINE)`| A
tangent line could not be evaluated for the given query.  
  
evEdgeTangentLines (context is Context, arg is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Return tangent lines to a edge.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `edge`

| `Query`| The curve to use  EXAMPLE

> `qNthElement(qEverything(EntityType.EDGE), 1)`  
  
  * `parameters`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of numbers in the range
0..1 indicating points along the curve to evaluate tangents at.  
  
  * `arcLengthParameterization`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true (default),
the parameter measures distance along the edge, so `0.5` is the midpoint. If
false, use an arbitrary but faster-to-evaluate parameterization.  
  
  * `face`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ If present, the edge orientation used is such that
walking along the edge with "up" being the `face` normal will keep `face` to
the left. Must be adjacent to `edge`.  
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of `Line`s.  
Throws| Additional info  
---|---  
`[GBTErrorStringEnum.NO_TANGENT_LINE](GBTErrorStringEnum.NO_TANGENT_LINE)`| A
tangent line could not be evaluated for the given query.  
  
evEdgeCurvatureDerivative (context is Context, arg is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns Vector

Evaluate the derivative of the curvature vector with respect to arc length,
that is, the third derivative of the curve with respect to arc length.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `edge`

| `Query`| The curve to use  EXAMPLE

> `qNthElement(qEverything(EntityType.EDGE), 1)`  
  
  * `parameter`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| A number in the range 0..1
indicating a point along the curve to evaluate the tangent at.  
  
  * `arcLengthParameterization`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true (default),
the parameter measures distance along the edge, so `0.5` is the midpoint. If
false, use an arbitrary but faster-to-evaluate parameterization.  
Throws| Additional info  
---|---  
`[GBTErrorStringEnum.NO_TANGENT_LINE](GBTErrorStringEnum.NO_TANGENT_LINE)`|
The curvature derivative could not be evaluated for the given query.  
  
evFacePeriodicity (context is Context, arg is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Return the periodicity in primary and secondary direction of a face, returned
in an array of booleans.

A particular direction is periodic when the face's underlying surface
definition is wrapped along that direction. For instance, if primary direction
is periodic, the parameters `[0, v]` and `[1, v]` will prepresent the same
point for all valid `v`. If the secondary direction is periodic, the
parameters `[u, 0]` and `[u, 1]` represent the same point for all valid `u`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `face`

| `Query`| The face on which to evaluate periodicity  
  
  * `trimmed`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If `true` (default),
return trimmed face periodicity instead of the underlying surface's.  
  
FaceCurvatureResult type

The result of an `evFaceCurvature` call -- principal directions and curvatures
at a point.

The curvature along a particular direction (in the tangent plane) is the
inverse of the radius of curvature in that direction. This curvature is
positive if the radius of curvature points away from the normal direction,
negative if it points along the normal direction, or zero if there is no
curvature in that direction. The principal curvatures at a point are the
directions of minimal and maximal curvature along the surface at that point.

Value| Type| Description | `FaceCurvatureResult` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `minCurvature`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The smaller of the two principal curvatures (inverse
length units).  
  
  * `maxCurvature`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The larger of the two principal curvatures (inverse length
units).  
  
  * `minDirection`

| `Vector`| A 3D unit vector corresponding to `minCurvature`.  
  
  * `maxDirection`

| `Vector`| A 3D unit vector corresponding to `maxCurvature`.  
  
evFaceCurvature (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns FaceCurvatureResult

Given a face, calculate and return principal curvatures at a point on that
face, specified by its parameter-space coordinates.

EXAMPLE

>
>      // Ellipsoid measuring 10in x 4in x 6in
>     fEllipsoid(context, id + "ellipsoid", {
>                 "center" : vector(0, 0, 0) * inch,
>                 "radius" : vector(5 * inch, 2 * inch, 3 * inch)
>             });
>     const ellipseFace = qCreatedBy(id + "ellipsoid", EntityType.FACE);
>     const topPoint = vector(0, 0, 3) * inch; // Point on top of ellipsoid
>     const distanceResult = evDistance(context, { // Closest position to
> topPoint on ellipseFace
>                 "side0" : ellipseFace,
>                 "side1" : topPoint
>             });
>     var uvCoordinatesAtTopPoint = distanceResult.sides[0].parameter;
>     var curvatureResult = evFaceCurvature(context, {
>             "face" : ellipseFace,
>             "parameter" : uvCoordinatesAtTopPoint
>         });
>     //  curvatureResult is {
>     //      minCurvature: 3 * inch / (5 * inch)^2,
>     //      maxCurvature: 3 * inch / (2 * inch)^2,
>     //      minDirection: vector(1, 0, 0),
>     //      maxDirection: vector(0, 1, 0)
>     //  }
>  

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `face`

| `Query`| The face on which to evaluate the curvature. The face cannot be a
mesh.  EXAMPLE

> `qNthElement(qEverything(EntityType.FACE), 1)`  
  
  * `parameter`

| `Vector`| a 2d unitless parameter-space vector specifying the location on
the face. The coordinates are relative to the parameter-space bounding box of
the face.  EXAMPLE

> `vector(0.5, 0.5)`  
  
evFaceCurvatures (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Given a face, calculate and return an array of principal curvatures at points
on that face, specified by its parameter-space coordinates.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `face`

| `Query`| A single face on which to evaluate the curvatures. The face cannot
be a mesh.  EXAMPLE

> `qNthElement(qEverything(EntityType.FACE), 1)`  
  
  * `parameters`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| an array of 2d unitless parameter-
space vectors specifying locations on the face. The coordinates are relative
to the parameter-space bounding box of the face.  EXAMPLE

> `[ vector(0.5, 0.5), vector(0, 1) ]`  
  
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of `FaceCurvatureResult`s.  
  
evFaceCurvatureDerivative (context is Context, arg is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns MatrixWithUnits

Given a face, calculate and return the derivative of the second fundamental
form of the face in a given direction.

The second fundamental form is a matrix that may be computed from the
principal curvatures of a surface as

    
    
    const curvature = evFaceCurvature(context, { ... });
    const secondFF = - curvature.minCurvature * transpose(matrix([curvature.minDirection])) * matrix([curvature.minDirection])
                     - curvature.maxCurvature * transpose(matrix([curvature.maxDirection])) * matrix([curvature.maxDirection]);
    

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `face`

| `Query`| The face on which to evaluate the curvature. The face cannot be a
mesh.  EXAMPLE

> `qNthElement(qEverything(EntityType.FACE), 1)`  
  
  * `parameter`

| `Vector`| a 2d unitless parameter-space vector specifying the location on
the face. The coordinates are relative to the parameter-space bounding box of
the face.  EXAMPLE

> `vector(0.5, 0.5)`  
  
  * `direction`

| `Vector`| a 3d unitless vector specifying a direction in the tangent plane
of the face. It should be a unit vector perpendicular to the face's normal at
the given point.  
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`MatrixWithUnits`| A 3x3 matrix with units of length ^ -2.  
  
evFaceNormalAtEdge (context is Context, arg is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns Vector

Return the surface normal of a face at a position on one of its edges.

If the first result is not a face, throw an exception.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `edge`

| `Query`|  
  
  * `face`

| `Query`|  
  
  * `parameter`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| A number in the range 0..1
indicating a point along the edge to evaluate the tangent at.  
  
  * `arcLengthParameterization`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true (default),
the parameter measures distance along the edge, so `0.5` is the midpoint. If
false, use an arbitrary but faster-to-evaluate parameterization.  
  
  * `usingFaceOrientation`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, the edge
orientation used is such that walking along the edge with "up" being the
`face` normal will keep `face` to the left. If false, use the default
orientation of the edge, which is the same orientation used by
`evEdgeTangentLine`. Default is `false`.  
  
evFaceTangentPlaneAtEdge (context is Context, arg is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns Plane

Return a `Plane` tangent to face at a position on one of its edges.

If the first result is not a face, throw an exception.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `edge`

| `Query`|  
  
  * `face`

| `Query`|  
  
  * `parameter`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| A number in the range 0..1
indicating a point along the edge to evaluate the tangent at.  
  
  * `arcLengthParameterization`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true (default),
the parameter measures distance along the edge, so `0.5` is the midpoint. If
false, use an arbitrary but faster-to-evaluate parameterization.  
  
  * `usingFaceOrientation`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, the edge
orientation used is such that walking along the edge with "up" being the
`face` normal will keep `face` to the left. If false, use the default
orientation of the edge, which is the same orientation used by
`evEdgeTangentLine`. Default is `false`.  
  
evFaceTangentPlanesAtEdge (context is Context, arg is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Return an array of `Plane`s tangent to a face at an array of parameters on one
of its edges. The x-direction of the plane is oriented with the tangent of the
edge with respect to `usingFaceOrientation`.

If the first result is not a face, throw an exception.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `edge`

| `Query`|  
  
  * `face`

| `Query`|  
  
  * `parameters`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of numbers in the range
0..1 indicating points along the edge to evaluate the tangent at.  
  
  * `arcLengthParameterization`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true (default),
the parameter measures distance along the edge, so `0.5` is the midpoint. If
false, use an arbitrary but faster-to-evaluate parameterization.  
  
  * `usingFaceOrientation`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, the edge
orientation used is such that walking along the edge with "up" being the
`face` normal will keep `face` to the left. If false, use the default
orientation of the edge, which is the same orientation used by
`evEdgeTangentLine`. Default is `false`.  
  
evFaceTangentPlane (context is Context, arg is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns Plane

Given a face, calculate and return a `Plane` tangent to that face, where the
plane's origin is at the point specified by its parameter-space coordinates.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `face`

| `Query`| The face to evaluate. The face cannot be a mesh.  EXAMPLE

> `qNthElement(qEverything(EntityType.FACE), 1)`  
  
  * `parameter`

| `Vector`| 2d unitless parameter-space vector specifying the location of
tangency on the face. The coordinates are relative to the parameter-space
bounding box of the face.  EXAMPLE

> `vector(0.5, 0.5)` places the origin at the bounding box's center.  
  
Throws| Additional info  
---|---  
`[GBTErrorStringEnum.NO_TANGENT_PLANE](GBTErrorStringEnum.NO_TANGENT_PLANE)`|
Could not find a tangent plane or there was a problem with face
parameterization.  
  
evFaceTangentPlanes (context is Context, arg is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Given a face, calculate and return an array of `Plane`s tangent to that face,
where each plane's origin is located at the point specified by its parameter-
space coordinates.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `face`

| `Query`| The face to evaluate. The face cannot be a mesh.  EXAMPLE

> `qNthElement(qEverything(EntityType.FACE), 1)`  
  
  * `parameters`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| an array of 2d unitless parameter-
space vectors specifying locations of tangency on the face. The coordinates
are relative to the parameter-space bounding box of the face.  EXAMPLE

> `[ vector(0.5, 0.5), vector(0, 1) ]`  
  
  * `returnUndefinedOutsideFace`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, the
function will only return a plane if vector is on the face, otherwise returns
undefined. Default is false.  
Throws| Additional info  
---|---  
`[GBTErrorStringEnum.NO_TANGENT_PLANE](GBTErrorStringEnum.NO_TANGENT_PLANE)`|
Could not find a tangent plane or there was a problem with face
parameterization.  
  
evFilletRadius (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns ValueWithUnits

Given a face of a constant radius fillet, return the radius of fillet.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `face`

| `Query`|  
Throws| Additional info  
---|---  
`[GBTErrorStringEnum.BAD_GEOMETRY](GBTErrorStringEnum.BAD_GEOMETRY)`| The
first resolved entity was not a filleted face.  
  
evLength (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
ValueWithUnits

Return the total length of all the entities (if they are edges) and edges
belonging to entities (if they are bodies). If no edges are found the total
length will be zero.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`|  
  
evLine (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
Line

If the edge is a line, return a `Line` value for the given edge.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `edge`

| `Query`|  
Throws| Additional info  
---|---  
`[GBTErrorStringEnum.INVALID_INPUT](GBTErrorStringEnum.INVALID_INPUT)`| The
first resolved entity was not a line.  
  
evMateConnector (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns CoordSystem

Gets the coordinate system of the given mate connector

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `mateConnector`

| `Query`| The mate connector to evaluate.  
  
evOwnerSketchPlane (context is Context, arg is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns Plane

Return the plane of the sketch that created the given entity.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entity`

| `Query`| The sketch entity. May be a vertex, edge, face, or body.  
  
  * `checkAllEntities`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, the
function will only return a plane if all entities queried under 'entity' share
coplanar sketch planes. Otherwise, the plane will only be evaluated for the
first entity in the query. Default is false.  
Throws| Additional info  
---|---  
`[GBTErrorStringEnum.CANNOT_RESOLVE_PLANE](GBTErrorStringEnum.CANNOT_RESOLVE_PLANE)`|
Entities were not created by a sketch or do not share the same sketch plane.  
  
evPlane (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
Plane

If the face is a planar face or a mate connector, return the `Plane` it
represents.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `face`

| `Query`|  
Throws| Additional info  
---|---  
`[GBTErrorStringEnum.CANNOT_RESOLVE_PLANE](GBTErrorStringEnum.CANNOT_RESOLVE_PLANE)`|
The first resolved entity was not a planar face or mate connector.  
  
evPlanarEdge (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns Plane

If the edge lies in a plane, return a `Plane` it lies in.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `edge`

| `Query`|  
Throws| Additional info  
---|---  
`[GBTErrorStringEnum.CANNOT_RESOLVE_PLANE](GBTErrorStringEnum.CANNOT_RESOLVE_PLANE)`|
The first resolved entity was not a planar edge.  
  
evPlanarEdges (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns Plane

If all the edges in a query share the same plane, return a `Plane` they lie
in.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `edges`

| `Query`|  
Throws| Additional info  
---|---  
`[GBTErrorStringEnum.CANNOT_RESOLVE_PLANE](GBTErrorStringEnum.CANNOT_RESOLVE_PLANE)`|
Edges in the query were either not planar or do not share the same plane.  
  
evSurfaceDefinition (context is Context, arg is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Return a descriptive value for a face, or the first face if the query finds
more than one. Return a `Cone`, `Cylinder`, `Plane`, `Sphere`, `Torus`, or
`BSplineSurface` as appropriate for the face, or an unspecified map value if
the face is none of these with surfaceType filled of type SurfaceType

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `face`

| `Query`|  
  
  * `returnBSplinesAsOther`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, do not
return B-spline surfaces (to avoid the associated time cost). Default is
false.  
Throws| Additional info  
---|---  
`["GBTErrorStringEnum.CANNOT_RESOLVE_PLANE"]()`| The first result is not a
face.  
  
evApproximateBSplineSurface (context is Context, arg is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Given a query for a face, return its approximation as a B-spline, including
trim boundaries. The options `forceCubic` and `forceNonRational` may be used
to restrict the type of spline that is returned for the surface, but even if
these options are false, a cubic non-rational spline may be returned.

The returned representation includes a surface, the boundary loop as 2D
splines in UV space, and any interior loops. The returned UV curves are
typically degree 1 or 2 and non-rational. For periodic surfaces, outer and
inner loops are not clearly defined and relying on them is not recommended.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `face`

| `Query`| The curve to approximate.  
  
  * `forceCubic`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, the
returned surface will be a cubic spline. This does not affect the trim curves.
Defaults to false.  
  
  * `forceNonRational`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, the
returned surface will be non-rational. Defaults to false.  
  
  * `tolerance`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Optional_ Specifies the desired
approximation tolerance: the maximum distance (in meters) between the original
face and the returned spline representation. Default is 1e-6, minimum is 1e-8,
and maximum is 1e-4. The tolerance for trim curves is 10x the specified value.  
Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `bSplineSurface`

| `BSplineSurface`| the underlying 3D surface  
  
  * `boundaryBSplineCurves`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| array of 2D `BSplineCurve`s
representing the trimming boundary of the face. May be empty if the face is
the entirety of the surface.  
  
  * `innerLoopBSplineCurves`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| array of arrays of 2D
`BSplineCurve`s representing the inner loops (if any) of the trimming boundary
of the face.  
  
evVertexPoint (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns Vector

Return the coordinates of a point, or the origin of a mate connector.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `vertex`

| `Query`|  
  
evVolume (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
ValueWithUnits

Return the total volume of all the entities. If no matching 3D bodies are
found, the total volume will be zero.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`|  
  
  * `accuracy`

| `VolumeAccuracy`|  
  
evMaxPathDeviation (context is Context, arg is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Returns the max deviation between two paths.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `side1`

| `Query`| Bodies and/or edges forming a single continuous path.  
  
  * `side2`

| `Query`| Bodies and/or edges forming a single continuous path.  
  
  * `showDeviation`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, will
display a magenta comb for each deviation sample and a red line with a star
for the maximum deviation. Default is `false`.  
Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `deviation`

| `ValueWithUnits`| value of the max deviation between `side1` and `side2`.  
  
  * `side1Point`

| `Vector`| position on `side1` where `side1` is `deviation` away from
`side2`.  
  
  * `side2Point`

| `Vector`| position on `side2` where `side2` is `deviation` away from
`side1`.  
  
evPointsDeviation (context is Context, arg is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns the deviation between the input points and the input topologies.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `points`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| Points to measure the deviation
from.  
  
  * `topologies`

| `Query`| Bodies/faces/edges/vertices to measure the deviation to. The
deviation will be between each point and the closest element of `topologies`  
  
  * `allDeviations`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, will return
a deviation value for each point in `points`. If false, will only return the
maximum deviation. Default is `false`.  
  
  * `showDeviation`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If true, show all
deviations/the max deviation depending on the value of `allDeviations`.
Default is `false`.  
  
  * `limit`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Optional_ Do not show deviations less than this value.
No effect if `showDeviation` is false. Default is `0 meter`.  
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| If `allDeviations` is true, an array
of maps, with one map per element in `points`; if it is false an array of a
single map. Each map has a: `deviation` (ValueWithUnits) : The deviation
between the given point and the elements of `topologies`. `pointPoint`
(Vector) : The position of the given point. `topologyPoint` (Vector) : The
closest position in `topologies`.  
  
evMeshPoints (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns the positions of all the points of the input mesh bodies/faces.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `meshes`

| `Query`| Mesh faces and bodies to evaluate.  
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of positions of all the
vertices of the given meshes  
  
## Math

## approximationUtils

APPROXIMATION_SAMPLES const

Number of sample taken on the curve to perform the approximation.

MAX_CONTROL_POINTS const

Maximum number of control points to approximate the curve with.

MAX_DEGREE const

Maximum degree of the curve.

TOLERANCE_BOUND const

A `LengthBoundSpec` for approximation tolerance.

DEGREE_BOUND const

An `IntegerBoundSpec` for curve degree.

curveApproximationPredicate (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
predicate

A predicate to add curve approximation parameters to a feature.

checkApproximationParameters (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map),
path is Path)

Checks approximation options to see if the approximation would succeed and
highlights the issue if not.

approximateResults (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Approximates the curves created by the feature id. This meant to be used along
with `curveApproximationPredicate` and it expects `definition` to have the
parameters defined in the predicate.

## box

This module refers to 3D bounding boxes, e.g. the result of a call to
`evBox3d`.

This is not to be confused with the [box](/FsDoc/variables.html#box) standard
type used for references.

Box3d type

A three-dimensional bounding box.

Value| Type| Description | `Box3d` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `minCorner`

| `Vector`| A 3D position representing the corner with the smallest x, y, and
z coordinates.  
  
  * `maxCorner`

| `Vector`| A 3D position representing the corner with the largest x, y, and z
coordinates.  
  
canBeBox3d (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Box3d`

box3d (minCorner is Vector, maxCorner is Vector) returns Box3d

Construct a bounding box from two opposite corners.

box3d (pointArray is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns Box3d

Construct a bounding box containing all points in pointArray

transformBox3d (boxIn is Box3d, transformation is Transform) returns Box3d

Return a box aligned with transformed coordinate system containing the input
box

extendBox3d (bBox is Box3d, absoluteValue is ValueWithUnits, factor is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns Box3d

Return an enlarged bounding box. The box is scaled by `1 + factor` around its
midpoint, and then each face is moved outward by `absoluteValue` (inward if
`absoluteValue` is negative).

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`absoluteValue` | `ValueWithUnits`| The absolute distance to move each face of the box. The corners move `sqrt(3)` times as far.   
`factor` | `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| The relative amount to expand the box, with `0` leaving it unchanged.   
  
box3dCenter (bBox is Box3d) returns Vector

Return the center of the bounding box.

box3dDiagonalLength (bBox is Box3d) returns ValueWithUnits

Return the length of the diagonal from the `minCorner` to the `maxCorner` of
the bounding box.

insideBox3d (point is Vector, bBox is Box3d) predicate

Whether the specified point is within the bounding box.

box3dAllCorners (bBox is Box3d) returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns all 8 corners of a Box3d as an array of Vectors.

## coordSystem

WORLD_ORIGIN const

Position of the world origin, equivalent to `vector(0, 0, 0) * meter`

X_DIRECTION const

Direction parallel to the X axis, equivalent to `vector(1, 0, 0)`

Y_DIRECTION const

Direction parallel to the Y axis, equivalent to `vector(0, 1, 0)`

Z_DIRECTION const

Direction parallel to the Z axis, equivalent to `vector(0, 0, 1)`

WORLD_COORD_SYSTEM const

The world coordinate system, equivalent to `coordSystem(vector(0, 0, 0) *
meter, vector(1, 0, 0), vector(0, 0, 1))`

CoordSystem type

A right-handed Cartesian coordinate system. Used for converting points and
geometry between different reference frames, or for creating planes and mate
connectors.

The y-axis of a coordinate system is not stored, but it can be obtained by
calling the yAxis function, which simply performs a cross product.

See also

`toWorld(CoordSystem)`

`fromWorld(CoordSystem)`

`coordSystem(Plane)`

`plane(CoordSystem)`

`opMateConnector`

Value| Type| Description | `CoordSystem` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `origin`

| `Vector`| A 3D point, in world space, representing the origin of the
coordinate system.  
  
  * `xAxis`

| `Vector`| A 3D unit vector, in world space, representing the x-axis of the
coordinate system.  
  
  * `zAxis`

| `Vector`| A 3D unit vector, in world space, representing the z-axis of the
coordinate system. Must be perpendicular to the `xAxis`.  
  
coordSystem (origin is Vector, xAxis is Vector, zAxis is Vector) returns
CoordSystem

Creates a Cartesian coordinate system.

See also

`CoordSystem`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`origin` | `Vector`| A 3D point in world space.   
`xAxis` | `Vector`| A 3D vector in world space. Need not be normalized.   
`zAxis` | `Vector`| A 3D vector in world space. Need not be normalized but must be orthogonal to xAxis.   
  
tolerantEquals (cSys1 is CoordSystem, cSys2 is CoordSystem) predicate

Check that two `CoordSystem`s are the same up to tolerance.

toWorld (cSys is CoordSystem, pointInCSys is Vector) returns Vector

Convert a specified point from a specified coordinate system into world space.

EXAMPLE

> `toWorld(cSys, vector(0, 0, 0))` equals `cSys.origin`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`pointInCSys` | `Vector`| A 3D vector, measured with respect to the `cSys` provided.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`Vector`| A 3D vector in world space.  
  
toWorld (cSys is CoordSystem) returns Transform

Returns a `Transform` which will transform coordinates measured in `cSys` into
world coordinates.

EXAMPLE

> `toWorld(cSys) * vector(0, 0, 0)` equals `cSys.origin`

When used in operations which place or move parts (like `opTransform`,
`opPattern`, or `addInstance`), this transform will (somewhat
counterintuitively) move parts from the world origin and orientation to the
`cSys` origin and orientation.

fromWorld (cSys is CoordSystem, worldPoint is Vector) returns Vector

Convert a specified point from world space into a specified coordinate system.

EXAMPLE

> `fromWorld(cSys, cSys.origin)` equals `vector(0, 0, 0)`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`worldPoint` | `Vector`| A 3D vector, measured in world space.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`Vector`| A 3D vector measured in `cSys`  
  
fromWorld (cSys is CoordSystem) returns Transform

Returns a `Transform` which will transform coordinates measured in world space
into `cSys` coordinates.

EXAMPLE

> `fromWorld(cSys) * cSys.origin` equals `vector(0, 0, 0)`

When used in operations which place or move parts (like `opTransform`,
`opPattern`, or `addInstance`), this transform will (somewhat
counterintuitively) move parts from the `cSys` origin and orientation to the
world origin and orientation.

scaleNonuniformly (xScale is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), yScale is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), zScale is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), cSys is CoordSystem) returns Transform

Returns a `Transform` that represents 3 independent scalings along the X, Y,
and Z axes of a particular `cSys`, centered around `cSys.origin`.

yAxis (cSys is CoordSystem) returns Vector

Returns the y-axis of a coordinate system

Return type| Description  
---|---  
`Vector`| A 3D vector in world space.  
  
toString (cSys is CoordSystem) returns [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

Returns a representation of the coordinate system as a string.

## curveGeometry

X_AXIS const

The global X axis, equivalent to `line(vector(0, 0, 0) * meter, vector(1, 0,
0))`

Y_AXIS const

The global Y axis, equivalent to `line(vector(0, 0, 0) * meter, vector(0, 1,
0))`

Z_AXIS const

The global Z axis, equivalent to `line(vector(0, 0, 0) * meter, vector(0, 0,
1))`

Line type

Represents a parameterized line in 3D space.

Value| Type| Description | `Line` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `origin`

| `Vector`| A point on the line, as a 3D Vector with length units.  
  
  * `direction`

| `Vector`| A unitless normalized 3D Vector.  
  
canBeLine (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Line`

line (origin is Vector, direction is Vector) returns Line

Creates a line from a point and a direction.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`direction` | `Vector`| The direction gets normalized by this function.   
  
tolerantEquals (line1 is Line, line2 is Line) predicate

Check that two `Line`s are the same up to tolerance, including checking that
they have the same origin.

To check if two `Line`s are equivalent (rather than equal), use
`collinearLines`.

collinearLines (line1 is Line, line2 is Line) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Returns `true` if the two lines are collinear.

transform (from is Line, to is Line) returns Transform

Returns the transformation that transforms the line `from` to the line `to`
(including the origin) using the minimum rotation angle.

project (line is Line, point is Vector) returns Vector

Returns the projection of the point onto the line. See also other overloads of
`project`.

rotationAround (line is Line, angle is ValueWithUnits) returns Transform

Returns a `Transform` that represents the rotation around the given line by
the given angle. The rotation is counterclockwise looking against the line
direction.

LineLineIntersection type

Represents an intersection between two lines. Depending on the lines, this
intersection may be a point, a line, or nothing.

Value| Type| Description | `LineLineIntersection` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `dim`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| Integer representing the dimension
of the intersection.  EXAMPLE

> `0` indicates that `intersection` is a 3D length `Vector`.

EXAMPLE

> `1` indicates that `intersection` is a `Line`. (i.e. the lines are
> collinear)

EXAMPLE

> `-1` indicates that the intersection does not exist.  
  
  * `intersection`

| | `undefined` or `Vector` or `Line` (depending on `dim`) that represents the intersection.   
  
canBeLineLineIntersection (value) predicate

Typecheck for `LineLineIntersection`

intersection (line1 is Line, line2 is Line) returns LineLineIntersection

Returns a `LineLineIntersection` representing the intersection between two
lines. If the lines are collinear, `line1` will be stored in the
`intersection` field of that `LineLineIntersection`.

isPointOnLine (point is Vector, line is Line) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Returns true if the point lies on the line.

toString (value is Line) returns [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

Circle type

Represents a circle in 3D space.

Value| Type| Description | `Circle` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `coordSystem`

| `CoordSystem`| The circle lies in the xy plane of this coordinate system and
the origin of its parameterization is the x axis.  
  
  * `radius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The radius of the circle.  
  
canBeCircle (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Circle`

circle (cSys is CoordSystem, radius is ValueWithUnits) returns Circle

Returns a new `Circle` in the given coordinate system `cSys`.

circle (center is Vector, xDirection is Vector, normal is Vector, radius is
ValueWithUnits) returns Circle

Returns a new `Circle` with the given parameters. `xDirection` and `normal`
must be perpendicular.

tolerantEquals (circle1 is Circle, circle2 is Circle) predicate

Check that two `Circle`s are the same up to tolerance, including the
coordinate system.

toString (value is Circle) returns [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

Ellipse type

Represents an ellipse in 3D space.

Value| Type| Description | `Ellipse` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `coordSystem`

| `CoordSystem`| The ellipse lies in the xy plane of this coordinate system
and the x axis corresponds to the major radius.  
  
  * `majorRadius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The larger of the two radii.  
  
  * `minorRadius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The smaller of the two radii.  
  
canBeEllipse (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Ellipse`

ellipse (cSys is CoordSystem, majorRadius is ValueWithUnits, minorRadius is
ValueWithUnits) returns Ellipse

Returns a new `Ellipse` with the given parameters.

ellipse (center is Vector, xDirection is Vector, normal is Vector, majorRadius
is ValueWithUnits, minorRadius is ValueWithUnits) returns Ellipse

Returns a new `Ellipse` with the given parameters. `xDirection` and `normal`
must be perpendicular.

tolerantEquals (ellipse1 is Ellipse, ellipse2 is Ellipse) predicate

Check that two `Ellipse`s are the same up to tolerance, including the
coordinate system.

toString (value is Ellipse) returns [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

KnotArray type

An array of non-decreasing numbers representing the knots of a spline

canBeKnotArray (value) predicate

Typecheck for `KnotArray`

knotArray (value is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns KnotArray

Cast an array on non-decreasing numbers to a KnotArray

knotArrayIsCorrectSize (knots is KnotArray, degree is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), nControlPoints is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) predicate

Assure that `size(knotArray)` is `1 + degree + nControlPoints`

BSplineCurve type

The definition of a spline in 3D or 2D world space, or unitless 2D parameter
space.

See also

`bSplineCurve(map)`

Value| Type| Description | `BSplineCurve` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `degree`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| The degree of the spline.  
  
  * `dimension`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| The dimension of the spline. Must
be 2 or 3.  
  
  * `isRational`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether the spline is rational.  
  
  * `isPeriodic`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether the spline is periodic.  
  
  * `controlPoints`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of control points of the
required dimension. Size should be at least degree + 1. 2D spline control
points can have world space units, or be unitless if they are intended to
represent locations in parameter space (e.g. as a boundary input to
`opCreateBSplineSurface`).  
  
  * `weights`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Required if`isRational` is
`true`_An array of unitless values with the same size as the control points
array.  
  
  * `knots`

| `KnotArray`| An array of non-decreasing knots of size equal to `1 + degree +
size(controlPoints)`  
  
canBeBSplineCurve (value) predicate

Typecheck for `BSplineCurve`

bSplineCurve (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
BSplineCurve

Returns a new `BSplineCurve`, adding knot padding and control point overlap as
necessary.

EXAMPLE

>
>     opCreateBSplineCurve(context, id + "bSplineCurve1", {
>                 "bSplineCurve" : bSplineCurve({
>                             "degree" : 2,
>                             "isPeriodic" : false,
>                             "controlPoints" : [
>                                     vector(0, 0, 0) * inch,
>                                     vector(1, 0, 0) * inch,
>                                     vector(1, 1, 0) * inch,
>                                     vector(0, 1, 0) * inch],
>                             "knots" : knotArray([0, .2, 1]) // Will be
> padded to [0, 0, 0, .2, 1, 1, 1]
>                         })
>             });
>  
>
> Creates a spline starting at the origin, moving first quickly along the
> x-axis (toward the second point), and finishing on the y-axis.

EXAMPLE

>
>     opCreateBSplineCurve(context, id + "bSplineCurve1", {
>                 "bSplineCurve" : bSplineCurve({
>                             "degree" : 3,
>                             "isPeriodic" : true,
>                             "controlPoints" : [
>                                     vector(0, 0, 0) * inch,
>                                     vector(1, 0, 0) * inch,
>                                     vector(1, 1, 0) * inch,
>                                     vector(0, 1, 0) * inch], // Will be
> overlapped by repeating the first 3 points
>                             "knots" : knotArray([0, .25, .5, .75, 1]) //
> Same as default when no knots provided. Will be padded to [-.75, -.5, -.25,
> 0, .25, .5, .75, 1, 1.25, 1.5, 1.75]
>                         })
>             });
>  
>
> Creates a closed, curvature-continuous, symmetric curve between the four
> given points.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `degree`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| The degree of the spline.  
  
  * `isPeriodic`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether the spline is periodic.  
  
  * `controlPoints`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of control points. See
`BSplineCurve` for specific detail. For periodic splines, you may provide the
necessary overlap, or provide control points without any overlap. If no
overlap is provided, `degree` overlapping control points (corresponding to the
first `degree` control points) will be added to the end of the control points
list (unless you provide a set of knots that show no overlap is necessary).
EXAMPLE

> `[vector(-1, 1, 0) * inch, vector(1, 1, 0) * inch, vector(1, -1, 0) * inch,
> vector(-1, -1, 0) * inch]`  
  
  * `weights`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ An array of weights. See
`BSplineCurve` for specific detail.  
  
  * `knots`

| `KnotArray`|  _Optional_ An array of knots. See `BSplineCurve` for specific
detail. If knots are not provided a uniform parameterization wil be created
such that the curve exists on the parameter range `[0, 1]`. For non-periodic
curves with `n` control points, you may provide the full set of `n + degree +
1` knots, or you may provide `n - degree + 1` knots, and multiplicity will by
padded onto the ends (which has the effect of clamping the spline to its two
endpoints). For periodic curves with `n` unique control points (and optionally
an additional `degree` overlapping control points), you may provide the full
set of `n + 2 * degree + 1` knots, or you may provide `n + 1` knots, and the
periodic knots will be padded onto the ends.  
  
bSplineCurve (degree is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), isPeriodic is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean), controlPoints is
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), knots is KnotArray) returns BSplineCurve

**Deprecated:** _Use`bSplineCurve(map)` _

bSplineCurve (degree is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), isPeriodic is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean), controlPoints is
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), weights is
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), knots is KnotArray) returns BSplineCurve

**Deprecated:** _Use`bSplineCurve(map)` _

## math

A module containing many elementary math functions.

Some math functions (such as `sin` and `cos`) accept a `ValueWithUnits`,
rather than a [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), and are defined in the
[units](/FsDoc/library.html#module-units.fs) module. There is no `pow`
function: exponentiation is done using the `^` operator.

When writing a FeatureScript module which uses only basic math functionality,
importing `mathUtils` (which imports this module along with `matrix`,
`transform`, and `vector`) is recommended.

PI const

The mathematical constant pi, to floating-point precision.

EXAMPLE

> `myAngle = (PI / 4) * radian`

In most cases, conversions using `PI` can be avoided if using `ValueWithUnits`
appropriately. Thus, you should never find yourself writing a statement like
`sin(myAngle * PI / 180)`, since `myAngle` should already have correct units
attached.

tolerantEquals (value1 is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), value2 is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) predicate

Returns `true` if numbers are equal up to a computational tolerance. The
tolerance used is a specific number defined by `TOLERANCE.computational` (set
to `1e-13`) that is meant to adequately handle tolerances introduced by
numerical operations. However, this tolerance may be too restrictive or
generous for different situations, in which case `tolerantEquals(number,
number, number)` should be used with the appropriate tolerance specified.

EXAMPLE

> `tolerantEquals(1, 1)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `tolerantEquals(1, 1 + 1e-14)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `tolerantEquals(1, 1 / 900 * 9e100 / 1e98)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `tolerantEquals(1, 1 / 9 / 9 / 9 / 9 * 9 * 9 * 9 * 9)` returns `true`

See also

`tolerantEquals(number, number, number)`

tolerantEquals (value1 is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), value2 is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), tolerance is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) predicate

Returns `true` if numbers are equal up to a specified tolerance.

EXAMPLE

> `tolerantEquals(1, 1, 0)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `tolerantEquals(1, 1.01, 0.03)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `tolerantEquals(1, 0.99, 0.03)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `tolerantEquals(1, 1.01, 0.01)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `tolerantEquals(1, 1.03, 0.01)` returns `false`

See also

`tolerantEquals(number, number)`

abs (value)

Absolute value.

EXAMPLE

> `abs(-1)` returns `1`

EXAMPLE

> `abs(-1.5 * inch)` equals `1.5 * inch`

sqrt (value is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number))

Square root of a `number`.

EXAMPLE

> `sqrt(4)` returns `2`

EXAMPLE

> `sqrt(-4)` throws an error

log (value is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number))

Natural logarithm of a `number`.

EXAMPLE

> `log(exp(3))` returns `3`

EXAMPLE

> `log(0)` returns `-inf`

EXAMPLE

> `log(-1)` throws an error

log10 (value is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number))

Base 10 logarithm of a `number`.

EXAMPLE

> `log10(1000)` returns `3`

EXAMPLE

> `log10(0)` returns `-inf`

EXAMPLE

> `log10(-1)` throws an error

sinh (value is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number))

Hyperbolic sine.

cosh (value is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number))

Hyperbolic cosine.

tanh (value is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number))

Hyperbolic tangent.

asinh (value is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number))

Inverse hyperbolic sine.

acosh (value is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number))

Inverse hyperbolic cosine.

atanh (value is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number))

Inverse hyperbolic tangent.

exp (value is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number))

`e` to the power of `value`.

EXAMPLE

> `exp(1)` returns `2.71828...`

EXAMPLE

> `exp(log(3))` returns `3`

exp2 (value is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number))

`2` to the power of `value`.

EXAMPLE

> `exp2(10)` returns `1024`

hypot (a is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), b is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number))

Hypotenuse function, as `sqrt(a^2 + b^2)`, but without any surprising results
due to finite numeric precision.

EXAMPLE

> `hypot(3, 4)` returns `5`

floor (value is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number))

Round a `number` down to the nearest integer.

For values with units, first divide by a value with the same units.

EXAMPLE

> `floor(1.9)` returns `1`

EXAMPLE

> `floor(2.0)` returns `2`

EXAMPLE

> `floor(-3.3)` returns `-4`

EXAMPLE

> `var numberOfBricks is number = floor(wallLength / brickLength);`

ceil (value is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number))

Round a `number` up to the nearest integer.

For values with units, first divide by a value with the same units.

EXAMPLE

> `ceil(1.1)` returns `2`

EXAMPLE

> `ceil(1.0)` returns `1`

EXAMPLE

> `ceil(-3.3)` returns `-3`

EXAMPLE

> `var numberOfBricks is number = ceil(wallLength / brickLength)`

round (value is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number))

Round a `number` to the nearest integer.

EXAMPLE

> `round(1.4)` returns `1`

EXAMPLE

> `round(1.5)` returns `2`

EXAMPLE

> `round(-1.5)` returns `-1`

roundToPrecision (value is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), precision
is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number))

Round a `number` to a given number of decimal places.

EXAMPLE

> `roundToPrecision(0.12345, 3)` returns `0.123`

EXAMPLE

> `roundToPrecision(9.9995, 3)` returns `10`

EXAMPLE

> `roundToPrecision(123.45, -1)` returns `120`

For positive values of precision, this method is more accurate than
round(value, multiple). For instance, `print(roundToPrecision(0.45682, 4))`
prints `0.4568`, but `round(0.45682, 0.0001)` prints `0.45680000000000004`.
This is because the floating point representation of `0.0001` is slightly
imprecise, and that imprecision is compounded inside the call to `round`. The
floating point value of `4`, on the other hand, is precise, so the result of
`roundToPrecision` will be the closest possible floating-point representation
of `0.4568`. Thus, `print` and other functions using string conversion (`~`)
will not print extraneous digits.

min (value1, value2)

Return the lesser of two values, which must be comparable with `<`.

EXAMPLE

> `min(0, 1)` returns `0`

EXAMPLE

> `min(1 * meter, 1 * inch)` equals `1 * inch`

max (value1, value2)

Return the greater of two values, which must be comparable with `<`.

EXAMPLE

> `max(0, 1)` returns `1`

EXAMPLE

> `max(1 * meter, 1 * inch)` equals `1 * meter`

min (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array))

Return the least of an array of values, as determined by operator `<`, or
undefined if the array is empty.

EXAMPLE

> `min([1, 2, 3])` returns `1`

EXAMPLE

> `min([1 * inch, 2 * inch, 3 * inch])` equals `1 * inch`

max (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array))

Return the greatest of an array of values, as determined by operator `<`, or
undefined if the array is empty.

EXAMPLE

> `max([1, 2, 3])` returns `3`

EXAMPLE

> `max([1 * inch, 2 * inch, 3 * inch])` equals `3 * inch`

argMin (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array))

Return the index of the smallest element of an array, as determined by
operator `<`, or undefined if the array is empty.

EXAMPLE

> `argMin([1 * inch, 2 * inch, 3 * inch])` returns `0`

argMax (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array))

Return the index of the largest element of an array, as determined by the `>`
operator, or undefined if the array is empty.

EXAMPLE

> `argMax([1 * inch, 2 * inch, 3 * inch])` returns `2`

range (from is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), to is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number))

Return an array of numbers in a range. Only integers are allowed.

EXAMPLE

> `range(0, 3)` returns `[0, 1, 2, 3]`

range (from, to, count)

Return an array of numbers, (of type `number` or `ValueWithUnits`), in a
range. Note: before FeatureScript 372 this function received as input the step
size instead of the number of steps

EXAMPLE

> `range(0, 10, 6)` returns `[0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10]`

EXAMPLE

> `range(0, 4.5, 4)` returns `[0, 1.5, 3, 4.5]`

EXAMPLE

> `range(1 * inch, 1.4 * inch, 3)` returns `[1 * inch, 1.2 * inch, 1.4 *
> inch]`

clamp (value, lowerBound, higherBound)

Force a value into a range,

EXAMPLE

> `clamp(-1, 0, 20)` returns `0`,

EXAMPLE

> `clamp(10, 0, 20)` returns `10`

EXAMPLE

> `clamp(30, 0, 20)` returns `20`

EXAMPLE

> `clamp(30 * inch, 0 * inch, 20 * inch)` equals `20 * inch`

isInteger (value) predicate

True if `value` is a finite integer.

Note that all numbers in FeatureScript represented as floating point numbers,
so an expression like `isInteger(hugeInteger + 0.1)` may still return `true`.

Used in feature preconditions to define an integer input.

isNonNegativeInteger (value) predicate

True if `value` is a finite integer greater than or equal to zero.

isPositiveInteger (value) predicate

True if `value` is a finite integer greater than zero.

## mathUtils

This module imports the `math`, `matrix`, `transform`, and `vector` modules.
It is designed to be imported instead of the `geometry` module in Feature
Studios where only math (not higher-level modeling functionality) is needed.

## matrix

Matrix type

A `Matrix` is an array of rows, all the same size, each of which is an array
of numbers

canBeMatrix (val) predicate

Typecheck for `Matrix`

matrixSize (matrix is Matrix) returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Return a 2 element array containing the numbers of rows and columns of a
matrix.

isSquare (matrix is Matrix) predicate

Check whether a matrix is square.

matrix (value is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns Matrix

Cast a two-dimensional array to a matrix.

identityMatrix (size is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns Matrix

Construct an identity matrix of a given dimension.

zeroMatrix (rows is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), cols is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns Matrix

Construct an all-zero matrix of a given dimension.

diagonalMatrix (diagonalValues is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array))
returns Matrix

Given an array of `diagonalValues` of size `n`, construct an `n`x`n` matrix
which has those values along its main diagonal (starting in the top-left), and
`0` everywhere else.

cwiseProduct (m1 is Matrix, m2 is Matrix) returns Matrix

Construct a matrix by multiplying corresponding elements of two matrices
(which must be the same size).

transpose (m is Matrix) returns Matrix

Return the transpose of a matrix.

inverse (m is Matrix) returns Matrix

Compute the inverse of a matrix. Throws an exception if the matrix is not
square. If the matrix is singular the resulting matrix will contain
infinities.

squaredNorm (m is Matrix) returns [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)

Return the sum of the squares of matrix elements.

norm (m is Matrix) returns [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)

Return the square root of the sum of the squares of matrix elements.

svd (m is Matrix) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Compute the singular value decomposition of a matrix, i.e. `s`, `u`, and `v`,
where `m == u * s * transpose(v)` and s is a diagonal matrix of singular
values.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`m` | `Matrix`| an n-by-p matrix.   
Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `u`

| `Matrix`| An n-by-n unitary matrix  
  
  * `s`

| `Matrix`| An n-by-p diagonal matrix  
  
  * `v`

| `Matrix`| A p-by-p unitary matrix  
  
determinant (m is Matrix) returns [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)

Return the determinant of the matrix.

toString (value is Matrix) returns [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

## matrixWithUnits

MatrixWithUnits type

A `MatrixWithUnits` is analogous to `ValueWithUnits`, but wrapping a matrix.

canBeMatrixWithUnits (value) predicate

Typecheck for `MatrixWithUnits`

get (matrix is MatrixWithUnits, i is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), j
is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns ValueWithUnits

Gets an element of a MatrixWithUnits, returning a ValueWithUnits.

matrixSize (matrix is MatrixWithUnits) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Return a 2-element array containing the numbers of rows and columns of a
matrix.

toString (value is MatrixWithUnits) returns
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

## nurbsUtils

removeKnots (points is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), knots is
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), curveDegree is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Remove as many knots as possible from a NURBS defined by points, knots and
curveDegree.

separatePointsAndWeights (points is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array))
returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Separates a 4d array containing weighted points into a 3d unweighted points
array and a 1d weights array.

combinePointsAndWeights (points is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array),
weights is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Combines a 3d unweighted points array and a 1d weights array into a 4d
weighted points array

## persistentCoordSystem

PersistentCoordSystem type

A coordinate system that can persist as part of an attribute associated with
an entity. This coordinate system will be transformed along with its parent
entity as that entity undergoes transformations.

As with other attributes, the coordinate system will be propagated to copied
entities, such as instances in a pattern. These copied persistent coordinate
systems will take on the transforms of their new parents.

When `getAttribute` is used to retrieve a previously-set persistent coordinate
system, the value of coordSystem will be in its transformed state for the
current point in the feature execution. If a transform is applied such that
the coordinate system is know longer right-handed, then the coordSystem value
will be undefined. For instance, this would happen in the case of a mirrored
coordinate system.

Value| Type| Description | `PersistentCoordSystem` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `coordSystem`

| `CoordSystem`| The coordinate system to persist  
  
  * `coordSystemId`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| An id to associate with the
coordinate system. This id must be unique within the context of the parent
entity.  
  
  * `forceRightHanded`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| When true, ensures the
coordinate system remains right-handed when mirrored by inverting the Y-axis.
Otherwise, mirroring the persistent coordinate system destroys it.  
  
persistentCoordSystem (coordSystem is CoordSystem, coordSystemId is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), forceRightHanded is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)) returns PersistentCoordSystem

Creates a persistent coordinate system.

See also

`PersistentCoordSystem`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`coordSystem` | `CoordSystem`| The coordinate system   
`coordSystemId` | `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| An id with which to associate the coordinate system. This id must be unique within the context of the parent entity that an becomes associated with this persistent coordinate system through `setAttribute`.   
`forceRightHanded` | `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| When true, ensures the coordinate system remains right-handed when mirrored by inverting the Y-axis.   
  
## splineUtils

ApproximationTarget type

A set of points and optionally derivatives to approximate by a spline.

See also

`approximateSpline(Context, map)`

Value| Type| Description | `ApproximationTarget` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `positions`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An ordered array of points for the
spline to pass closely to.  
  
  * `startDerivative`

| `Vector`|  _Required if`start2ndDerivative` is provided _The desired start
derivative of the spline.  
  
  * `start2ndDerivative`

| `Vector`|  _Optional_ The desired start second derivative of the spline.  
  
  * `endDerivative`

| `Vector`|  _Required if`end2ndDerivative` is provided _The desired end
derivative of the spline.  
  
  * `end2ndDerivative`

| `Vector`|  _Optional_ The desired end second derivative of the spline.  
  
canBeApproximationTarget (value) predicate

Typecheck for ApproximationTarget

approximationTarget (value is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
ApproximationTarget

Construct an `ApproximationTarget`

approximateSpline (context is Context, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Compute a family of splines that approximates a family of
`ApproximationTarget`s to within a given tolerance. The resulting splines are
consistently parameterized, so that, for example, lofting between them will
match corresponding target positions. Note: If `parameters` are not specified,
the magnitude of start and end derivatives in targets is ignored as well as
the second component parallel with the first derivative.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `degree`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| The desired degree of the curve.
The output may have a different degree, if for example there aren't enough
points.  
  
  * `tolerance`

| `ValueWithUnits`| How far the output is allowed to deviate from the input.
Must be at least 1e-8 meters.  
  
  * `isPeriodic`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether the output spline is
periodic.  
  
  * `targets`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of `ApproximationTarget`s.
All targets must have the same number of positions and specify corresponding
derivative information.  
  
  * `parameters`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ An array of numbers
representing the parameters corresponding to the target points. Must be
strictly increasing. If specified, the output spline at those parameters will
match the target points. If specified, derivatives in approximation targets
will not be rescaled.  
  
  * `maxControlPoints`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Optional_ The maximum number of
control points that will be returned by this function's output. Tolerance will
not be satisfied if this limit is reached. Default is 10000.  
  
  * `interpolateIndices`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ An array of indices into
target positions that specifies which ones are to be interpolated exactly.
This is currently supported only for non-periodic splines.  
  
  * `suppressInterpolationNotice`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Don't report an info
if the result is fully interpolated. Default is false.  
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of `BSplineCurve`s, one for
each target.  
  
evaluateSpline (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Evaluate a 3D spline at several parameters, possibly with derivatives.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `spline`

| `BSplineCurve`| The 3D spline to evaluate.  
  
  * `parameters`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of numbers in the range of
the spline's knot vector.  
  
  * `nDerivatives`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Optional_ The number of
derivatives to compute, in addition to the positions. Default is 0.  
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of arrays of points. If
`result` is returned, `result[i][j]` is the `i`th derivative at `j`th
parameter.  
  
elevateBezierDegree (pointsIn is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array),
newDegree is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Elevate the degree of a bezier curve defined by an array of control points

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`pointsIn` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| The control points of the curve to be elevated. Must be non-empty.   
`newDegree` | `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| The desired degree. If it is less than the number of control points, the control points will be returned unchanged.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| The control points of the degree-
elevated curve  
  
## surfaceGeometry

This module contains methods for creating and working with primitive surfaces:
planes, cylinders, cones, spheres, and tori.

XY_PLANE const

The world XY plane, equivalent to `plane(vector(0, 0, 0) * meter, vector(0, 0,
1), vector(1, 0, 0))`

YZ_PLANE const

The world YZ plane, equivalent to `plane(vector(0, 0, 0) * meter, vector(1, 0,
0), vector(0, 1, 0))`

XZ_PLANE const

The world XZ plane, equivalent to `plane(vector(0, 0, 0) * meter, vector(0, 1,
0), vector(0, 0, 1))`

Plane type

A `Plane` is a data type representing an origin, a normal vector, and an X
direction, perpendicular to the normal direction.

Value| Type| Description | `Plane` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `origin`

| `Vector`| A 3D point, in world space.  
  
  * `normal`

| `Vector`| A 3D unit vector in world space.  
  
  * `x`

| `Vector`| A 3D unit vector in world space. Must be perpendicular to
`normal`.  
  
canBePlane (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Plane`

plane (cSys is CoordSystem) returns Plane

Create a `Plane` on the XY plane of a specified coordinate system.

plane (origin is Vector, normal is Vector, x is Vector) returns Plane

Create a `Plane` which fully specifies its orientation.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`origin` | `Vector`| A 3D point in world space.   
`normal` | `Vector`| A 3D vector in world space. Need not be normalized.   
`x` | `Vector`| A 3D vector in world space. Need not be normalized.   
  
plane (origin is Vector, normal is Vector) returns Plane

Create a `Plane` from a point and a normal.

The x-axis of this `Plane`'s coordinate system will be an arbitrary vector
perpendicular to the `normal`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`origin` | `Vector`| A 3D point in world space.   
`normal` | `Vector`| A 3D vector in world space. Need not be normalized.   
  
alignCanonically (context is Context, plane is Plane) returns Plane

Returns the plane that would represent the coordinate system of a face
coplanar with the input plane. Used in plane transformation for computing
sketch patterns.

yAxis (plane is Plane) returns Vector

Returns the y-axis of the specified plane as a 3D Vector in world space.

tolerantEquals (plane1 is Plane, plane2 is Plane) predicate

Check that two `Plane`s are the same up to tolerance, including checking that
they have the same the origin and local coordinate system.

To check if two `Plane`s are equivalent (rather than equal), use
`coplanarPlanes`.

coplanarPlanes (plane1 is Plane, plane2 is Plane) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Returns `true` if the two planes are coplanar.

planeToCSys (plane is Plane) returns CoordSystem

Create a coordinate system whose XY-plane is a specified plane, with its
origin at the plane's origin.

coordSystem (plane is Plane) returns CoordSystem

Create a coordinate system whose XY-plane is a specified plane, with its
origin at the plane's origin.

Alias for `planeToCSys`.

toString (value is Plane) returns [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

project (plane is Plane, point is Vector) returns Vector

Projects a 3D `point` onto a `Plane`, returning a 3D point on the plane.

project (plane is Plane, line is Line) returns Line

Projects a `Line` onto a `Plane`, returning a `Line` whose origin is on the
`Plane` and whose direction is a normalized `Vector` on the `Plane`

Throws an error if the `Line` is in the same direction as the normal of the
`Plane`

planeToWorld (plane is Plane, planePoint is Vector) returns Vector

Transforms a 2D `point` in a `Plane`'s coordinates to its corresponding 3D
point in world coordinates.

planeToWorld3D (plane is Plane) returns Transform

Returns a `Transform` which takes 3D points measured with respect to a `Plane`
(such that points which lie on the plane will have a z-coordinate of
approximately `0`) and transforms them into world coordinates.

worldToPlane3D (plane is Plane, worldPoint is Vector) returns Vector

Transforms a 3D `point` in world coordinates into a 3D point measured in a
`Plane`'s coordinates. If the `point` lies on the `Plane`, the result will
have a z-coordinate of approximately `0`.

worldToPlane (plane is Plane, worldPoint is Vector) returns Vector

Transforms a 3D `worldPoint` in world coordinates into a 2D point measured in
a `Plane`'s (x,y) coordinates.

This is modified as of FeatureScript version 363.0. Older versions of
FeatureScript use `worldToPlane` to return 3D vectors composed of the plane
coordinate system baseis. This functionality is still available in the
`worldToPlane` function above.

worldToPlane3D (plane is Plane) returns Transform

Returns a `Transform` which takes 3D points measured in world coordinates and
transforms them into 3D points measured in plane coordinates (such that points
which lie on the plane will have a z-coordinate of approximately `0`).

transform (from is Plane, to is Plane) returns Transform

Returns a `Transform` which maps the plane `from` to the plane `to`.

mirrorAcross (plane is Plane) returns Transform

Returns a `Transform` which takes points on one side of a plane and transforms
them to the other side. The resulting transform is non-rigid, and using this
transform in an `opTransform` or similar operations will invert the
transformed bodies.

intersection (plane1 is Plane, plane2 is Plane)

Returns a `Line` at the intersection between the two `Plane`s. If the planes
are parallel or coincident, returns `undefined`.

LinePlaneIntersection type

Represents an intersection between a line and a plane. Depending on the line
and plane, this intersection may be a point, a line, or nothing.

Value| Type| Description | `LinePlaneIntersection` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `dim`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| Integer representing the dimension
of the intersection.  EXAMPLE

> `0` indicates that `intersection` is a 3D length `Vector`.

EXAMPLE

> `1` indicates that `intersection` is a `Line`.

EXAMPLE

> `-1` indicates that the intersection does not exist (i.e. the line and the
> plane are parallel).  
  
  * `intersection`

| | `undefined` or `Vector` or `Line` (depending on `dim`) that represents the intersection.   
  
canBeLinePlaneIntersection (value) predicate

Typecheck for `LinePlaneIntersection`

intersection (plane is Plane, line is Line) returns LinePlaneIntersection

Returns a `LinePlaneIntersection` representing the intersection between `line`
and `plane`.

isPointOnPlane (point is Vector, plane is Plane) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Returns true if the point lies on the plane.

flip (plane is Plane) returns Plane

Returns a `Plane` with the reversed normal vector.

Cone type

Type representing a cone which extends infinitely down the positive z-axis of
its `coordSystem`.

Value| Type| Description | `Cone` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `coordSystem`

| `CoordSystem`| The position and orientation of the cone.  
  
  * `halfAngle`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The angle from z-axis of `coordSystem` to the surface of
the cone.  
  
canBeCone (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Cone`

cone (cSys is CoordSystem, halfAngle is ValueWithUnits) returns Cone

Constructs a `Cone` from a coordinate system and a half angle.

tolerantEquals (cone1 is Cone, cone2 is Cone) predicate

Check that two `Cone`s are the same up to tolerance, including the local
coordinate system.

toString (value is Cone) returns [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

Cylinder type

Type representing a Cylinder which extends infinitely along the z-axis of its
`coordSystem`.

Value| Type| Description | `Cylinder` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `coordSystem`

| `CoordSystem`| The position and orientation of the cylinder.  
  
  * `radius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The cylinder's radius.  
  
canBeCylinder (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Cylinder`

cylinder (cSys is CoordSystem, radius is ValueWithUnits) returns Cylinder

Constructs a cylinder from a coordinate system and a radius.

tolerantEquals (cylinder1 is Cylinder, cylinder2 is Cylinder) predicate

Check that two `Cylinder`s are the same up to tolerance, including the local
coordinate system.

toString (value is Cylinder) returns [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

Torus type

Type representing a torus, the shape of a circle revolved around a coplanar
axis.

The torus represented is revolved about the z-axis of the `coordSystem` and
centered in its xy-plane.

Value| Type| Description | `Torus` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `coordSystem`

| `CoordSystem`| The position and orientation of the torus.  
  
  * `radius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The major radius, i.e. the distance from the center of the
torus to the center of the revolved circle.  
  
  * `minorRadius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The minor radius, i.e. the radius of the revolved circle.  
  
canBeTorus (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Torus`

torus (cSys is CoordSystem, minorRadius is ValueWithUnits, radius is
ValueWithUnits) returns Torus

Constructs a torus from a coordinate system, the minor radius, and the major
radius.

tolerantEquals (torus1 is Torus, torus2 is Torus) predicate

Check that two tori are the same up to tolerance, including the local
coordinate system.

toString (value is Torus) returns [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

Sphere type

Type representing a sphere of a given radius centered around a 3D point.

Value| Type| Description | `Sphere` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `coordSystem`

| `CoordSystem`| The position and orientation of the sphere.  
  
  * `radius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The sphere's radius.  
  
canBeSphere (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Sphere`

sphere (cSys is CoordSystem, radius is ValueWithUnits) returns Sphere

tolerantEquals (sphere1 is Sphere, sphere2 is Sphere) predicate

Check that two `Sphere`s are the same up to tolerance, including the local
coordinate system.

toString (value is Sphere) returns [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

ControlPointMatrix type

A two-dimensional array of 3D position vectors. Reading across a row
represents a change in v, and reading down a column represents a change in u.

canBeControlPointMatrix (value) predicate

Typecheck for `ControlPointMatrix`

controlPointMatrix (value is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
ControlPointMatrix

Cast a two-dimensional array of 3D position vectors to a `ControlPointMatrix`.

BSplineSurface type

The definition of a spline in 3D space. For all matrices of the spline
definition, reading across a row represents a change in v, and reading down a
column represents a change in u.

See also

`bSplineSurface`

Value| Type| Description | `BSplineSurface` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `uDegree`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| The degree of the spline in u.  
  
  * `vDegree`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| The degree of the spline in v.  
  
  * `isRational`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether the spline is rational.  
  
  * `isUPeriodic`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether the spline periodic in
u.  
  
  * `isVPeriodic`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether the spline periodic in
v.  
  
  * `controlPoints`

| `ControlPointMatrix`| A grid of 3d control points. Must have at least
`uDegree + 1` rows and `vDegree + 1` columns.  
  
  * `weights`

| `Matrix`|  _Required if`rational` is `true`_A matrix of unitless values with
the same shape as the control points grid.  
  
  * `uKnots`

| `KnotArray`| An array of non-decreasing knots of size equal to 1 + `uDegree`
\+ number of rows in `controlPoints`  
  
  * `vKnots`

| `KnotArray`| An array of non-decreasing knots of size equal to 1 + `vDegree`
\+ number of columns in `controlPoints`  
  
canBeBSplineSurface (value) predicate

Typecheck for `BSplineSurface`

bSplineSurface (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Returns a new `BSplineSurface`, adding knot padding and control point overlap
as necessary.

EXAMPLE

>
>     opCreateBSplineSurface(context, id + "bSplineSurface1", {
>                 "bSplineSurface" : bSplineSurface({
>                             "uDegree" : 2,
>                             "vDegree" : 2,
>                             "isUPeriodic" : false,
>                             "isVPeriodic" : false,
>                             "controlPoints" : controlPointMatrix([
>                                         [vector(-2,  2, 0) * inch,
> vector(-1,  2, 0) * inch, vector(0,  2, 0) * inch, vector(1,  2, 0) * inch,
> vector(2,  2, 0) * inch],
>                                         [vector(-2,  1, 0) * inch,
> vector(-1,  1, 0) * inch, vector(0,  1, 0) * inch, vector(1,  1, 0) * inch,
> vector(2,  1, 0) * inch],
>                                         [vector(-2,  0, 0) * inch,
> vector(-1,  0, 0) * inch, vector(0,  0, 1) * inch, vector(1,  0, 0) * inch,
> vector(2,  0, 0) * inch],
>                                         [vector(-2, -2, 0) * inch,
> vector(-1, -2, 0) * inch, vector(0, -2, 0) * inch, vector(1, -2, 0) * inch,
> vector(2, -2, 0) * inch]
>                                     ]),
>                             "uKnots" : knotArray([0, .1, 1]), // Will be
> padded to [0, 0, 0, .1, 1, 1, 1]
>                             "vKnots" : knotArray([0, 1/3, 2/3, 1]) // Same
> as default when no knots provided.  Will be padded to [0, 0, 0, 1/3, 2/3, 1,
> 1, 1]
>                         })
>             });
>  
>
> Creates a new spline surface on the XY plane with a protrusion at the
> origin, falling back to the XY plane more quickly in the +Y direction.

EXAMPLE

>
>     opCreateBSplineSurface(context, id + "bSplineSurface1", {
>                 "bSplineSurface" : bSplineSurface({
>                             "uDegree" : 2,
>                             "vDegree" : 1,
>                             "isUPeriodic" : true,
>                             "isVPeriodic" : false,
>                             "controlPoints" : controlPointMatrix([
>                                         [vector(0,  0, 1) * inch, vector(-1,
> 0, 0) * inch, vector(-2,  0, -1) * inch],
>                                         [vector(1,  1, 1) * inch, vector( 0,
> 1, 0) * inch, vector(-1,  1, -1) * inch],
>                                         [vector(2,  0, 1) * inch, vector( 1,
> 0, 0) * inch, vector( 0,  0, -1) * inch],
>                                         [vector(1, -1, 1) * inch, vector( 0,
> -1, 0) * inch, vector(-1, -1, -1) * inch]
>                                         // Will be overlapped by repeating
> the first two rows
>                                     ]),
>                             "uKnots" : knotArray([0, .25, .5, .75, 1]), //
> Same as default when no knots provided. Will be padded to [-.5, -.25, 0,
> .25, .5, .75, 1, 1.25, 1.5]
>                             "vKnots" : knotArray([0, .5, 1]) // Same as
> default when no knots provided.  Will be padded to [0, 0, .5, 1, 1]
>                         })
>             });
>  
>
> Creates a new spline surface which is a tube surrounding the origin, sheared
> in the X direction.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `uDegree`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| The degree of the spline in u.  
  
  * `vDegree`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| The degree of the spline in v.  
  
  * `isUPeriodic`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether the spline periodic in
u.  
  
  * `isVPeriodic`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether the spline periodic in
v.  
  
  * `controlPoints`

| `ControlPointMatrix`| A matrix of control points. See `BSplineSurface` for
specific detail. If u or v is periodic, you may provide the necessary overlap,
or provide control points without any overlap. If no overlap is provided,
`degree` overlapping control point rows or columns (corresponding to the first
`degree` control point rows or columns) will be added. (unless you provide a
set of knots that show no overlap is necessary).  EXAMPLE

>
>     controlPointMatrix([
>         [vector(-1, -1, -1) * inch, vector(-1, 0, 0) * inch, vector(-1, -2,
> 1) * inch],
>         [vector( 0,  1, -1) * inch, vector( 0, 2, 0) * inch, vector( 0,  0,
> 1) * inch],
>         [vector( 1, -1, -1) * inch, vector( 1, 0, 0) * inch, vector( 1, -2,
> 1) * inch]
>     ])
>  
  
  * `weights`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ A matrix of weights. See
`BSplineSurface` for specific detail.  
  
  * `uKnots`

| `KnotArray`|  _Optional_ An array of knots. See `BSplineSurface` for
specific detail. If knots are not provided a uniform parameterization will be
created such that the u parameterization exists on the range `[0, 1]`. For
non-periodic u with `n` control point rows, you may provide the full set of `n
+ degree + 1` knots, or you may provide `n - degree + 1` knots, and
multiplicity will by padded onto the ends (which has the effect of clamping
the surface to the control points in the first and last rows). For periodic u
with `n` unique control points (and optionally an additional `degree`
overlapping control points), you may provide the full set of `n + 2 * degree +
1` knots, or you may provide `n + 1` knots, and the periodic knots will be
padded onto the ends.  
  
  * `vKnots`

| `KnotArray`|  _Optional_ See `uKnots`.  
  
MeshFaceParameter type

A `MeshFaceParameter` is a 2D array unitless array. It is functionnally
indentical to a 2D vector but because there is no guarantee of continuity for
mesh parameters, it does not make sense to expose vector math for it.

canBeMeshFaceParameter (value) predicate

Typecheck for `MeshFaceParameter`

meshFaceParameter (value is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
MeshFaceParameter

Make a `MeshFaceParameter` from an array.

## transform

Transform type

A `Transform` typically represents a change of position and orientation in 3D
space (other affine transformations, such as scaling and shearing, can also be
represented).

`rotationAround`, `scaleUniformly`, `transform(Vector)`,
`toWorld(CoordSystem)` and `fromWorld(CoordSystem)` return useful transforms.
`Transform`s are commonly used with `opTransform`, whose documentation has
examples of calling these functions.

`Transform`s are also commonly used with their `*` operator overloads to
easily work with geometry in multiple coordinate systems.

EXAMPLE

> `transform * (vector(1, 1, 1) * inch)` yields a point which is the given
> point, transformed by the `transform`.

EXAMPLE

> `transform2 * transform1` yields a new transform which is equivalent to
> applying `transform1` followed by `transform2`.

A `Transform` contains a linear portion (rotation, scaling, or shearing),
which is applied first, and a translation vector, which is applied second.
Generally, these individual fields on this type don't need to be directly
used, and everything you need can be accomplished through the operator
overloads above, or other functions in this module and the `coordSystem`
module.

Value| Type| Description | `Transform` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `linear`

| `Matrix`| A linear motion, which is generally a rotation, but can also be a
scaling, inversion, or shearing.  
  
  * `translation`

| `Vector`| A 3D translation vector.  
  
canBeTransform (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Transform`

transform (linear is Matrix, translation is Vector) returns Transform

Construct a `Transform` using the matrix argument for rotation and scaling and
the vector argument for translation.

transform (translation is Vector) returns Transform

Construct a `Transform` that translates without rotation or scaling.

transform (value is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns Transform

identityTransform () returns Transform

Construct a transform that does nothing (no rotation, scaling, or
translation).

tolerantEquals (transform1 is Transform, transform2 is Transform) predicate

Check that two `Transform`s are the same up to tolerance.

inverse (t is Transform) returns Transform

Compute the inverse of a `Transform`, such that `inverse(t) * t ==
identityTransform()`.

scaleUniformly (scale is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns
Transform

Returns a `Transform` that represents a uniform scaling around the origin.

scaleUniformly (scale is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number),
pointToScaleAbout is Vector) returns Transform

Returns a `Transform` that represents a uniform scaling around
`pointToScaleAbout`.

scaleNonuniformly (xScale is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), yScale is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), zScale is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns Transform

Returns a `Transform` that represents 3 independent scalings along the X, Y,
and Z axes, centered around the origin.

scaleNonuniformly (xScale is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), yScale is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), zScale is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), pointToScaleAbout is Vector) returns
Transform

Returns a `Transform` that represents 3 independent scalings along the X, Y,
and Z axes, centered around `pointToScaleAbout`.

## transformUV

TransformUV type

A `TransformUV` represents a change of position and orientation in unitless 2D
space.

A `TransformUV` contains a linear portion (rotation, scaling, or shearing),
which is applied first, and a translation vector, which is applied second.

Value| Type| Description | `TransformUV` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `linear`

| `Matrix`| A linear motion, which is generally a rotation, but can also be a
scaling, inversion, or shearing.  
  
  * `translation`

| `Vector`| A 2D translation vector.  
  
isUvVector (value) predicate

True for a single 2D unitless `Vector`

EXAMPLE

> `vector(0.5, 1)`

canBeTransformUV (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Transform`

transformUV (linear is Matrix, translation is Vector) returns TransformUV

Construct a `TransformUV` using the matrix argument for rotation and scaling
and the vector argument for translation.

transformUV (translation is Vector) returns TransformUV

Construct a `TransformUV` that translates without rotation or scaling.

transformUV (value is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns TransformUV

identityTransformUV () returns TransformUV

Construct a transform that does nothing (no rotation, scaling, or
translation).

tolerantEquals (transform1 is TransformUV, transform2 is TransformUV)
predicate

Check that two `TransformUV`s are the same up to tolerance.

inverse (t is TransformUV) returns TransformUV

Compute the inverse of a `TransformUV`, such that `inverse(t) * t ==
identityTransform()`.

scaleUniformlyUV (scale is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns
TransformUV

Returns a `TransformUV` that represents a uniform scaling around the origin.

scaleNonuniformly (xScale is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), yScale is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns TransformUV

Returns a `TransformUV` that represents two independent scalings along the X
and Y axes, centered around the origin.

rotate (angle is ValueWithUnits) returns TransformUV

Returns a `TransformUV` that represents a rotation around the origin with the
given angle.

## units

ValueWithUnits type

A `ValueWithUnits` is a number with dimensions, such as 1.5 inches, 90
degrees, or 9.81 meters per second per second.

    
    
    const width is ValueWithUnits = 1.5 * inch;
    const angle is ValueWithUnits = 90 * degree;
    const g     is ValueWithUnits = 9.81 * meter / second / second;
    

Values with the same dimensions can be added and subtracted, even if they were
created in different unit systems.

    
    
    const length       = 3 * meter + 1 * inch;
    const longerLength = length + 0.01 * inch;
    const nonsense     = 3 * meter + 3 * degree;     // Throws an error from dimension mismatch
    

Multiplication (`*`) will multiply both the values and the units. An
expression where the units all cancel evaluates to plain `number`.

    
    
    var doubleLength   = 2 * length;                 // ValueWithUnits with length units
    var area           = (20 * foot) * (30 * foot);  // ValueWithUnits with area units
    var numberOfBricks = (64 * foot) / (9 * inch);   // number with no units
    

Values with units can be raised to numerical powers with the `^` operator.
Base units like `inch` or `second` can be exponentiated in the same way.

    
    
    var squareArea   = (3 * meter)^2;
    var g            = 9.81 * meter / second^2;
    

Functions in the standard library require a ValueWithUnits for arguments where
units are needed. Thus, the `depth` in `opExtrude` requires a value with
length units (rather than assuming meters). The argument of `sin` is a value
with angle units (rather than assuming radians). The argument of sqrt can be
any value whose units are even powers.

    
    
    var ladderHeight   = ladderLength * sin(75 * degree); // Has length units
    var pendulumPeriod = 2 * PI * sqrt(armLength / g);    // Has time units
    

Equality of `ValueWithUnits` considers the underlying value, so `25.4 *
millimeter` is equal to `1 * inch`. However, `PI * radian / 5` does not equal
`36 * degree` because of finite precision arithmetic. To check equality of
`ValueWithUnits`, you should use tolerantEquals.

    
    
    if (tolerantEquals(myLength, 0 * inch))
    {
        ...
    

Keeping correct units on variables is always best practice, in order to
benefit from easy unit conversions and runtime unit checks. However, when
printing, you may wish to divide out the units in order to display a value in
a different system of units.

    
    
    const length = 42 * centimeter;
    println(length);                                 // prints "0.42 meter"
    println("length: " ~ toString(length));          // prints "length: 0.42 meter"
    println(length / inch ~ " inches");              // prints "16.535433070866137 inches"
    println(roundToPrecision(length / inch, 3) ~ " inches"); // prints "16.535 inches"
    

unitless const

The constant `1`, with no units.

meter const

A constant equal to 1 meter.

centimeter const

A constant equal to 1 centimeter.

millimeter const

A constant equal to 1 millimeter.

inch const

A constant equal to 1 inch.

foot const

A constant equal to 1 foot.

yard const

A constant equal to 1 yard.

squareMeter const

A constant equal to one square meter.

squareCentimeter const

A constant equal to one square centimeter.

squareMillimeter const

A constant equal to one square millimeter.

squareInch const

A constant equal to one square inch.

squareFoot const

A constant equal to one square foot.

squareYard const

A constant equal to one square yard.

cubicMeter const

A constant equal to one cubic meter.

cubicCentimeter const

A constant equal to one cubic centimeter.

cubicMillimeter const

A constant equal to one cubic millimeter.

cubicInch const

A constant equal to one cubic inch.

cubicFoot const

A constant equal to one cubic foot.

cubicYard const

A constant equal to one cubic yard.

radian const

A constant equal to 1 radian.

Formally, radians are unitless, so in certain situations you may need to
multiply or divide by `radian`

EXAMPLE

> `var myAngle = PI / 6 * radian`

EXAMPLE

> `var arcLength = radius * arcAngle / radian`

degree const

A constant equal to 1 degree.

kilogram const

A constant equal to 1 kilogram.

gram const

A constant equal to 1 gram.

ounce const

A constant equal to 1 ounce.

pound const

A constant equal to 1 pound.

second const

A constant equal to 1 second

newton const

A constant equal to 1 newton.

kilonewton const

A constant equal to 1 kilonewton.

poundForce const

A constant equal to 1 pound-force.

pascal const

A constant equal to 1 pascal.

kilopascal const

A constant equal to 1 kilopascal.

megapascal const

A constant equal to 1 megapascal.

gigapascal const

A constant equal to 1 gigapascal.

poundPerSquareInch const

A constant equal to 1 pound per square inch.

kilopoundPerSquareInch const

A constant equal to 1 ksi.

newtonMeter const

A constant equal to 1 newton-meter.

newtonMillimeter const

A constant equal to 1 newton-millimeter.

inchPound const

A constant equal to 1 inch-pound.

footPound const

A constant equal to 1 foot-pound.

meterPerSecondSquared const

A constant equal to 1 meter per second squared.

millimeterPerSecondSquared const

A constant equal to 1 millimeter per second squared.

inchPerSecondSquared const

A constant equal to 1 inch per second squared.

footPerSecondSquared const

A constant equal to 1 foot per second squared.

radianPerSecond const

A constant equal to 1 radian per second.

degreePerSecond const

A constant equal to 1 degree per second.

joule const

A constant equal to 1 Joule.

footPoundForce const

A constant equal to 1 foot-pound force.

kilogramPerCubicMeter const

A constant equal to 1 kilogram per cubic meter

gramPerCubicCentimeter const

A constant equal to 1 gram per cubic centimeter

gramPerLiter const

A constant equal to 1 gram per liter

gramPerMilliliter const

A constant equal to 1 gram per milliliter

poundPerCubicFoot const

A constant equal to 1 pound per cubic foot

poundPerCubicInch const

A constant equal to 1 pound per cubic inch

isLength (val) predicate

True for any value with length units.

isArea (val) predicate

True for any value with area units.

isVolume (val) predicate

True for any value with volume units.

isAngle (val) predicate

True for any value with angle units.

isForce (val) predicate

True for any value with force units.

isPressure (val) predicate

True for any value with pressure units.

isMoment (val) predicate

True for any value with moment units.

isAcceleration (val) predicate

True for any value with acceleration units.

isAngularVelocity (val) predicate

True for any value with angular velocity units.

isEnergy (val) predicate

True for any value with energy units.

isDensity (val) predicate

True for any value with density units.

reciprocal (val is ValueWithUnits) returns ValueWithUnits

Inverts a value, including units.

tolerantEquals (value1 is ValueWithUnits, value2 is ValueWithUnits) predicate

Returns true if angles are equal up to zeroAngle or anything else is equal up
to zeroLength

tolerantGreaterThan (greater, lesser) predicate

Returns `true` if `greater` is greater than and not tolerantly equal to
`lesser`.

EXAMPLE

> `(1 * meter)->tolerantGreaterThan(0 * meter)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `1->tolerantGreaterThan(0)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `0->tolerantGreaterThan(-1e-14)` returns `false`

EXAMPLE

> `0->tolerantGreaterThan(0)` returns `false`

tolerantGreaterThanOrEqual (greater, lesser) predicate

Returns `true` if `greater` is greater than or tolerantly equal to `lesser`.

EXAMPLE

> `(1 * meter)->tolerantGreaterThanOrEqual(0 * meter)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `1->tolerantGreaterThanOrEqual(0)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `0->tolerantGreaterThanOrEqual(0)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `0->tolerantGreaterThanOrEqual(1e-14)` returns `true`

tolerantLessThan (lesser, greater) predicate

Returns `true` if `lesser` is less than and not tolerantly equal to `greater`.

EXAMPLE

> `(0 * meter)->tolerantLessThan(1 * meter)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `0->tolerantLessThan(1)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `0->tolerantLessThan(1e-14)` returns `false`

EXAMPLE

> `0->tolerantLessThan(0)` returns `false`

tolerantLessThanOrEqual (lesser, greater) predicate

Returns `true` if `lesser` is less than or tolerantly equal to `greater`.

EXAMPLE

> `(0 * meter)->tolerantLessThanOrEqual(1 * meter)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `0->tolerantLessThanOrEqual(1)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `0->tolerantLessThanOrEqual(0)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `1e-14->tolerantLessThanOrEqual(0)` returns `true`

tolerantWithinExclusive (value, lesser, greater) predicate

Returns `true` if `value` is tolerantly within the interval `(lesser,
greater)`.

EXAMPLE

> `(0.5 * meter)->tolerantWithinExclusive(0 * meter, 1 * meter)` returns
> `true`

EXAMPLE

> `0.5->tolerantWithinExclusive(0, 1)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `1->tolerantWithinExclusive(0, 1)` returns `false`

EXAMPLE

> `0->tolerantWithinExclusive(0, 1)` returns `false`

EXAMPLE

> `0->tolerantWithinExclusive(1e-14, 1)` returns `false`

tolerantWithinInclusive (value, lesser, greater) predicate

Returns `true` if `value` is tolerantly within the interval `[lesser,
greater]`.

EXAMPLE

> `(0.5 * meter)->tolerantWithinInclusive(0 * meter, 1 * meter)` returns
> `true`

EXAMPLE

> `0.5->tolerantWithinInclusive(0, 1)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `1->tolerantWithinInclusive(0, 1)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `0->tolerantWithinInclusive(0, 1)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `0->tolerantWithinInclusive(1e-14, 1)` returns `true`

tolerantEqualsZero (value) predicate

Returns `true` if `value` is tolerantly equal to the `0` value with the same
units as `value`.

EXAMPLE

> `tolerantEqualsZero(0)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `tolerantEqualsZero(0 * meter)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `tolerantEqualsZero(1e-9 * meter)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `tolerantEqualsZero(1)` returns `false`

EXAMPLE

> `tolerantEqualsZero(1 * meter)` returns `false`

sqrt (value is ValueWithUnits) returns ValueWithUnits

Square root of a `ValueWithUnits`.

EXAMPLE

> `sqrt(4 * meter^2)` equals `2 * meter`.

EXAMPLE

> `2 * PI * sqrt(armLength / (9.8 * meter/second^2))` equals the period of a
> pendulum, in seconds.

EXAMPLE

> `sqrt(4 * meter)` throws an error, since FeatureScript has no concept of the
> square root of a meter.

hypot (a is ValueWithUnits, b is ValueWithUnits)

Hypotenuse function, as `sqrt(a^2 + b^2)`, but without any surprising results
due to finite numeric precision.

EXAMPLE

> `hypot(3 * foot, 4 * foot)` equals `5 * foot`

sin (value is ValueWithUnits) returns [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)

Sine, the ratio of the opposite side over the hypotenuse in a right triangle
of the specified angle.

EXAMPLE

> `sin(30 * degree)` returns approximately `0.5`

EXAMPLE

> `sin(PI * radian)` returns approximately `0`

cos (value is ValueWithUnits) returns [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)

Cosine, the ratio of the adjacent side over the hypotenuse in a right triangle
of the specified angle.

EXAMPLE

> `cos(60 * degree)` returns approximately `0.5`

EXAMPLE

> `cos(PI * radian)` returns approximately `-1`

tan (value is ValueWithUnits) returns [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)

Tangent, the ratio of the opposite side over the adjacent side in a right
triangle of the specified angle.

EXAMPLE

> `tan(45 * degree)` returns approximately `1`

EXAMPLE

> `tan(PI * radian)` returns approximately `0`

asin (value is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns ValueWithUnits

Arcsine, i.e. inverse sine.

Returns a value between `-90 * degree` and `90 * degree`.

EXAMPLE

> `asin(0.5)` equals approximately `30 * degree`

EXAMPLE

> `asin(1.5)` throws an error, since there is no value where `sin(value)` is
> `1.5`

acos (value is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns ValueWithUnits

Arccosine, i.e. inverse cosine.

Returns a value between `0 * degree` and `180 * degree`.

EXAMPLE

> `acos(0.5)` equals approximately `60 * degree`

EXAMPLE

> `acos(1.5)` throws an error, since there is no value where `cos(value)` is
> `1.5`

atan (value is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns ValueWithUnits

Arctangent, i.e. inverse tangent.

Returns a value between `-90 * degree` and `90 * degree`.

EXAMPLE

> `atan(1)` equals approximately `45 * degree`

EXAMPLE

> `atan(inf)` equals approximately `90 * degree`

atan2 (y is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), x is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns ValueWithUnits

Returns the counterclockwise angle from the vector `[0, 1]` to the vector `[x,
y]`. The angle is negative if y is negative. This is equivalent to `atan(y/x)`
except the result respects the quadrant of the input and is well-behaved near
x == 0.

EXAMPLE

> `atan2(0, 1)` equals approximately `0 * degree`

EXAMPLE

> `atan2(1, 0)` equals approximately `90 * degree`

EXAMPLE

> `atan2(0, -1)` equals approximately `180 * degree`

EXAMPLE

> `atan2(-1, 0)` equals approximately `-90 * degree`

atan2 (y is ValueWithUnits, x is ValueWithUnits) returns ValueWithUnits

Returns the counterclockwise angle from the vector `[0, 1]` to the vector `[x,
y]`, assuming the units of `y` and `x` match.

See also

`atan2(number, number)`

isAngleBetween (queryAngle is ValueWithUnits, minAngle is ValueWithUnits,
maxAngle is ValueWithUnits)

Returns true if the provided angle is within the given range (inclusive with
tolerance), "winding" the query angle as necessary to put it within a positive
full circle turn of the range. Ranges that encompass one or more full circles
will return true regardless of the query angle.

Throws if range's maximum angle is less than the minimum angle.

EXAMPLE

> `isAngleBetween(0.5 * PI * radian, 0 * radian, PI * radian)` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `isAngleBetween(0.5 * PI * radian, 2 * PI * radian, 3 * PI * radian)`
> returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `isAngleBetween(-1.5 * PI * radian, 0 * radian, PI * radian)` returns `true`

floor (value, multiple)

Round a value down to nearest given multiple.

EXAMPLE

> `floor(125, 10)` returns `120`

EXAMPLE

> `floor(-15, 10)` returns `-20`

EXAMPLE

> `floor(3.14 * inch, 0.1 * inch)` equals `3.1 * inch`

ceil (value, multiple)

Round a value up to nearest given multiple.

EXAMPLE

> `ceil(125, 10)` returns `130`

EXAMPLE

> `ceil(-15, 10)` returns `-10`

EXAMPLE

> `ceil(3.14 * inch, 0.1 * inch)` equals `3.2 * inch`

round (value, multiple)

Round a value to nearest given multiple.

EXAMPLE

> `round(125, 10)` returns `130`

EXAMPLE

> `round(-15, 10)` returns `-10`

EXAMPLE

> `round((10 / 3) * meter, centimeter)` equals `3.33 * meter`

EXAMPLE

> `round(1 * meter, .001 * inch)` equals `39.37 * inch`

For small values of `multiple`, `roundToPrecision` is preferred to reduce
floating point errors.

toString (value is ValueWithUnits) returns
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

General value to string conversion.

parseJsonWithUnits (s is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))

Parse a JSON string into either a map or array. Null values in the JSON are
returned as `undefined`. Throws if the string is not well-formed JSON.
Applicable strings are parsed into a ValueWithUnits. For instance, "3 inch"
will map to a `ValueWithUnits` with length units that repreresents 3 inches.

Return type| Description  
---|---  
| A map or an array corresponding to the JSON value.  
  
## vector

Vector type

A `Vector` is a non-empty array. It should contain numbers or lengths.

Operators `+`, `-`, `*`, and `/` are overloaded for vectors, and other
operations such as dot product are available. If a vector does not contain
numbers or lengths, operations that assume number-like properties may fail.

canBeVector (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Vector`

vector (value is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns Vector

Make a Vector from an array.

vector (x, y) returns Vector

Construct a 2-dimensional vector.

vector (x, y, z) returns Vector

Construct a 3-dimensional vector.

isLengthVector (value) predicate

True for a `Vector` where all members are values with length units.

EXAMPLE

> `vector([1, 2, 3, 4, 5]) * inch`

isUnitlessVector (value) predicate

True for a `Vector` where all members are simple `number`s.

EXAMPLE

> `vector([1, 2, 3, 4, 5])`

is2dPoint (value) predicate

True for a single 2D length `Vector`

EXAMPLE

> `vector(0.5, 1) * inch`

is2dPointVector (value) predicate

True for an `array` where all members are 2D lengths.

EXAMPLE

> `[vector(0, 0) * inch, vector(0, 1) * inch, vector(1, 0) * inch]`

is2dDirection (value) predicate

True for a unitless 2D `Vector` that is normalized (i.e. has length `1`)

EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 1)`

is3dLengthVector (value) predicate

True for a 3D `Vector` where all members are values with length units.

EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 1.5, 30) * inch`

is3dDirection (value) predicate

True for a unitless 3D `Vector` that is normalized (i.e. has length `1`)

EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 0, 1)`

zeroVector (size is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns Vector

Make an array filled with 0.

EXAMPLE

> `zeroVector(3)` is equivalent to `vector(0, 0, 0)`

squaredNorm (vector is Vector)

Returns the squared length of a vector. This is slightly faster to calculate
than the length.

norm (vector is Vector)

Returns the length (norm) of a vector.

dot (vector1 is Vector, vector2 is Vector)

Returns the dot product of two vectors.

cross (vector1 is Vector, vector2 is Vector) returns Vector

Returns the cross product of two 3-dimensional vectors.

angleBetween (vector1 is Vector, vector2 is Vector) returns ValueWithUnits

Returns the angle between two 3-dimensional vectors. Values are within the
range `[0, PI] * radian`.

EXAMPLE

> `angleBetween(X_DIRECTION, Y_DIRECTION)` equals `PI/2 * radian`

EXAMPLE

> `angleBetween(Y_DIRECTION, X_DIRECTION)` equals `PI/2 * radian`

A plane is fitted to the two vectors and the shortest angle between them is
measured on that plane.

angleBetween (vector1 is Vector, vector2 is Vector, ref is Vector) returns
ValueWithUnits

Returns the counterclockwise angle between two 3-dimensional vectors as
witnessed from the tip of a third 3-dimensional vector. Values are within the
range `(-PI, PI] * radian` with negative values indicating clockwise angles.

EXAMPLE

> `angleBetween(X_DIRECTION, Y_DIRECTION, Z_DIRECTION)` equals `PI/2 * radian`

EXAMPLE

> `angleBetween(Y_DIRECTION, X_DIRECTION, Z_DIRECTION)` equals `-PI/2 *
> radian`

The first two vectors are projected onto a plane perpendicular to the
reference vector and the angle is measured according to that projection.

normalize (vector is Vector) returns Vector

Returns the (unitless) result of normalizing vector. Throws if the input is
zero-length.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`vector` | `Vector`| A Vector with any units.   
  
project (target is Vector, source is Vector) returns Vector

Project the `source` vector onto the `target` vector. Equivalent to `target *
dot(source, target) / squaredNorm(target)`.

perpendicularVector (vec is Vector) returns Vector

Returns a vector perpendicular to the given vector. The choice of which
perpendicular vector to return is arbitrary but consistent for the same input.
The returned vector is unitless and of length 1.

rotationMatrix3d (from is Vector, to is Vector) returns Matrix

Construct a 3D rotation matrix that represents the minimum rotation that takes
the normalized `from` vector to the normalized `to` vector. The inputs may
have any units.

rotationMatrix3d (axis is Vector, angle is ValueWithUnits) returns Matrix

Construct a 3D matrix representing a counterclockwise (looking against the
axis) rotation around the given axis by the given rotation angle.

scalarTripleProduct (vector1 is Vector, vector2 is Vector, vector3 is Vector)

Returns the scalar triple product, a dot (b cross c), of three 3-dimensional
vectors.

toString (value is Vector) returns [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

tolerantEquals (point1 is Vector, point2 is Vector) predicate

Returns true if two vectors designate the same point (within tolerance) or the
same direction (within tolerance).

parallelVectors (vector1 is Vector, vector2 is Vector) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Returns true if two vectors are parallel (within tolerance).

perpendicularVectors (vector1 is Vector, vector2 is Vector) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Returns true if two vectors are perpendicular (within tolerance).

clusterPoints (points is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), tolerance is
ValueWithUnits) returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Groups points into clusters. Two points farther than tolerance apart are
guaranteed to be in separate clusters. A set of points all within tolerance of
each other that has no other points within tolerance is guaranteed to be a
single cluster.

Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| Array of arrays, where each array is a
cluster of nearby points, represented as indices into points array.  
  
## Utilities

## attributes

Attributes are data attached to individual entities, which can be set and
retrieved by name in FeatureScript. The data can be of any type, and multiple
attributes with different names can be associated with the same topological
entity.

One common use case for attributes is to set attributes on an entity in one
feature, and get them in another. For data not associated with entities, the
same thing can be accomplished simply via `setVariable` and `getVariable`, but
attributes allow that data to be set on specific bodies, faces, edges, or
vertices.

    
    
    setAttribute(context, {
       "entities" : somePart,
       "name" : "refPoint",
       "attribute" : vector(0, 0, 1) * inch
    });
    // Later, possibly in another feature:
    const partRefPoint = getAttribute(context, {
       "entity" : somePart,
       "name" : "refPoint"
    });
    if (partRefPoint != undefined)
    {
        // use partRefPoint...
    }
    

Attributes are also a useful way to mark important groups of entities for
other features or other deriving Part Studios. You can query for entities with
a specific attribute, a specific attribute value, or a value matching a given
pattern with the query functions `qHasAttribute`, `qHasAttributeWithValue`, or
`qHasAttributeWithValueMatching`, respectively.

Attributes stay with the entity they are defined on, even as the Part Studio
changes. An attribute on a face, edge, or body which is split in two will be
set with the same name and value on both split pieces. An attribute on a
patterned entity will be set on each patterned copy. If two or more entities
are merged together (e.g. with a boolean union), then the attributes on both
are kept on the result, though if they have attributes with the same name, the
value of the primary entity (e.g. the first resolved body in the boolean
`tools`) will be used.

Legacy unnamed attributes: A previous use of these attribute functions
involved setting unnamed attributes by calling `setAttribute` without a
`"name"`. This workflow is still supported, but is no longer recommended.
Legacy unnamed attributes can be identified and retrieved only by type, and
two attributes of the same type are not allowed on the same entity. The
behavior of these unnamed attributes, described in "Legacy unnamed attribute"
notes like this one, can be safely ignored if all your attributes are set with
a `"name"`.

setAttribute (context is Context, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Attach an attribute to one or several entities. Will overwrite any attribute
previously set on the same entity with the same name.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| Entities to attach attribute to. Throws an error if the query
resolves to nothing.  
  
  * `name`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| The name of the attribute  
  
  * `attribute`

| | The data to set. Can be any type. If `undefined` is provided, any existing attribute will be unset (and this entity will no longer resolve in `qHasAttribute` and similar functions)  Legacy unnamed attributes: If name is not provided, adds an unnamed attribute to the entities. If more than one unnamed attribute with the same type is set on any entity, throws an error.   
  
getAttributes (context is Context, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Get attributes attached to entities.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| Entities to get attributes on. If query resolves to nothing, empty
array is returned  
  
  * `name`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| The name of the attribute to get.  
  
  * `attributePattern`

| | _Optional_ Providing a map here will also filter out attributes which do not have entries precisely matching the keys and values of `attributePattern`, similar to `qHasAttributeWithValueMatching`.  EXAMPLE

> `{ "odd" : true }` matches all attributes values are maps with a field
> `"odd"` whose value is `true`.

Legacy unnamed attributes: If `attributePattern` is provided and `name` is
not, getAttributes will only return unnamed attributes with the same type as
`attributePattern`, using the same behavior documented in the legacy function
`qAttributeFilter`.  
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of all unique attributes on
the given entities matching the pattern.  
  
getAttribute (context is Context, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Get the value of a single named attribute attached to a single entity, or
`undefined` if no attribute of that name has been set.

EXAMPLE

>
>     setAttribute(context, { "entities" : someEntities, "name" :
> "importantData", "attribute" : 42});
>     for (const entity in evaluateQuery(entities)) {
>         const value = getAttribute(context, {
>             "entity" : entity,
>             "name" : "importantData"
>         });
>         println(value); // prints 42
>     }
>  

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entity`

| `Query`| Query resolving to a single entity to get the attribute from. If
multiple entities are resolved, the first resolved entity is considered.  
  
  * `name`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| Name of the attribute  
  
getAllAttributes (context is Context, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Get the named attributes attached to a single entity, or an empty map if the
entity has no attributes.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entity`

| `Query`| Query resolving to a single entity to get the attributes from.  
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| A map from attribute names to attribute
values for all of the attributes on the given entity.  
  
removeAttributes (context is Context, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Has no effect on named attributes, instead use `setAttribute` with
`"attribute" : undefined`.

Legacy unnamed attributes: Remove matching unnamed attributes attached to
entities.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ Entities to remove unnamed attributes from. Default is
everything.  
  
  * `attributePattern`

| | _Optional_ If provided, will only remove attributes with the same type, using the same behavior documented in the legacy function `qAttributeFilter`.   
  
## computedPartProperty

defineComputedPartProperty (propertyFunction is
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)) returns
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)

This function takes a computed part property function and wraps it to define a
computed part property. It is analogous to `defineFeature`, except that it is
used to define computed part properties. A typical usage is something like:

    
    
    annotation { "Property Function Name" : "MyProperty" }  // annotation required for Onshape to recognize computed property function
    export const myProperty = defineComputedPartProperty(function(context is Context, part is Query, definition is map)
        returns ValueWithUnits // may also return string or boolean or number
        // definition is an empty map and reserved for future use
        {
            ... // Compute and return the property value, using the context and the parameters
        });
    

For more information on writing computed part properties, see [`Computed part
properties`](./computed-part-properties.html) in the FeatureScript guide.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`propertyFunction` | `[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)`| A function that takes a `context`, a `part` Query that returns a single Part, and a `definition`, and that returns a value such as a number or a string or a ValueWithUnits.  
  
## containers

This module contains functions for working with FeatureScript arrays (e.g.
`[1, 2, 3]`) and maps (e.g. `{ "x" : 1, "y" : true }`)

makeArray (size is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), fillValue) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Create a new array with given `size`, filled with `fillValue`. Note: this is
equivalent to assigning each individual array element to `fillValue`; boxes
and builtins will not be deep-copied.

EXAMPLE

> `makeArray(3, 0)` returns `[0, 0, 0]`

makeArray (size is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Create a new array with given `size`, filled with `undefined`.

EXAMPLE

> `makeArray(3)` returns `[undefined, undefined, undefined]`

size (container is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)

Returns the size of an array. This counts only direct children; it does not
recursively examine containers inside.

EXAMPLE

> `size([1, 2, 3])` returns `3`

EXAMPLE

> `size([1, [2, 3]])` returns `2`

size (container is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)

Returns the size of an map. This counts only direct children; it does not
recursively examine containers inside.

EXAMPLE

> `size({ "x" : 1, "y" : 2 })` returns `2`

isIn (value, container is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Returns `true` if `value` appears in an array, using `==` for comparison.

EXAMPLE

> `isIn(1 * inch, [0 * inch, 1 * inch, 2 * inch])` returns `true`

indexOf (container is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), value) returns
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)

Return the index of the `value` in `container`, or -1 if the value is not
found.

indexOf (container is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), value, startIndex
is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)

Return the index of the `value` in `container` starting the search at a
specified start index, or -1 if the value is not found.

isValueIn (value, container is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Returns `true` if `value` appears as the value of a map entry, using `==` for
comparison.

EXAMPLE

> `isValueIn(true, { "a" : true, "b" : 0 })` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `isValueIn("b", { "a" : true, "b" : 0 })` returns `false`

mapArray (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), mapFunction is
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns a new array, with the same size as `arr`, created by mapping each
element of `arr` through a `mapFunction`.

EXAMPLE

> `mapArray([0, 1], function(x) { return -x; })` returns `[0, -1]`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`mapFunction` | `[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)`| A function which takes in one argument (a member of the input array) and returns a value.   
  
resize (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), newSize is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), newValue) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns a copy of an array with size changed to `newSize`. If the new size is
larger than the original size, the extra values are set to `newValue`.

EXAMPLE

> `resize([1, 2, 3], 2, 0)` returns `[1, 2]`

EXAMPLE

> `resize([1, 2, 3], 5, 0)` returns `[1, 2, 3, 0, 0]`

resize (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), newSize is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns a copy of an array with size changed to `newSize`. If the new size is
larger than the original size, the extra values are set to `undefined`.

append (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), newValue) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns a copy of an array with a single value added to the end.

EXAMPLE

> `append([1, 2], 3)` returns `[1, 2, 3]`

concatenateArrays (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Given an array of arrays, concatenate the contents of the inner arrays.

EXAMPLE

> `concatenateArrays([[1, 2], [3, 4]])` returns `[1, 2, 3, 4]`

EXAMPLE

> `concatenateArrays([[1], [], [2, undefined], [[3]]])` returns `[1, 2,
> undefined, [3]]`

concatenateArrays (a is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), b is
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Given two arrays, concatenate the contents of the arrays.

EXAMPLE

> `concatenateArrays([1, 2], [3, 4])` returns `[1, 2, 3, 4]`

mergeMaps (defaults is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), m is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Add each key-value pair in the second map to a copy of first and return the
result. Since later-added entries take precedence, nothing from the second map
will be lost.

In other words, any keys from `defaults` which are missing from `m` will be
filled in with their values from `defaults`.

EXAMPLE

> `mergeMaps({a:0}, {a:1})` returns `{a:1}`

EXAMPLE

> `mergeMaps({a:0}, {b:1})` returns `{a:0, b:1}`

intersectMaps (maps is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Compute the intersection of the keysets of the input maps. In other words,
returns a map whose keys are present in all input maps and whose values are
taken from the last map.

EXAMPLE

> `intersectMaps([{a:0}, {a:1}])` returns `{a:1}`

EXAMPLE

> `intersectMaps([{a:0}, {b:1}])` returns `{}`

EXAMPLE

> `intersectMaps([{a:0, b:1}, {a:0, b:2}])` returns `{a:0, b:2}`

reverse (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Return a copy of an array with elements in reverse order.

EXAMPLE

> `reverse([1, 2, 3])` returns `[3, 2, 1]`

sort (entities is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), compareFunction is
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function))

Return a sorted copy of an array. Current implementation uses merge sort.

EXAMPLE

> `sort([3, 1, 2], function(a, b) { return a - b; })` returns `[1, 2, 3]`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`compareFunction` | `[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)`| A function that takes two values, returns a negative value if the first is before the second, `0` if the two are equal, and positive value if the second is before the first.   
  
tolerantSort (values is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), tolerance)
returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns a sorted copy of `values`, where any sequence of values within
`tolerance` of each other is sorted in the order of the original array.

This is useful when sorting by a geometric measurement (like length, area, or
volume) because it makes it much less likely that a tiny change in that
computed value will change the resulting sort order.

EXAMPLE

> `tolerantSort([5, 1.000001, 1, 8], 0.001)` returns `[1.000001, 1, 5, 8]`

EXAMPLE

> `tolerantSort( [1 * inch, 1.00009 * inch, 0.99991 * inch], 0.0001 * inch)`
> returns `[1 * inch, 1.00009 * inch, 0.99991 * inch]`. The order is entirely
> unchanged since two pairs of values are within the tolerance (even though
> the third pair isn't).

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`values` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of `number` or `ValueWithUnits`.   
`tolerance` | | Tolerance for comparing elements of `values`.   
  
tolerantSort (entities is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), tolerance,
mapFunction) returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Performs a tolerantSort of `entities`, ordering by the value returned by
`mapFunction`. Like `tolerantSort`, the original order will be preserved for
values within `tolerance` for stability.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`tolerance` | | EXAMPLE

> `1e-7 * meter`  
  
`mapFunction` | | A function taking in a single entity and returning a sortable `number` or `ValueWithUnits`.  EXAMPLE

> `function(entity is Query) { return evLength(context, {"entities" :
> entity}); }` to sort entities by increasing length.  
  
filter (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), filterFunction is
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function))

Return the members of an array matching a predicate function, preserving
element order.

Throws exception if `filterFunction` throws, or if the `filterFunction` does
not return `boolean`.

EXAMPLE

> `filter([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6], function(x) { return x % 2 == 0; })` returns
> `[2, 4, 6]`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`filterFunction` | `[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)`| A function which takes one argument (a member of the input array) and returns a `boolean`.   
  
first (m is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Return the first item in a map

keys (container is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns the keys in the supplied map in map iteration order.

EXAMPLE

> `keys({ "a" : 1, "c" : 2, "b" : 3 })` returns `["a", "b", "c"]`

values (container is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns the values in the supplied map ordered by the map iteration ordering
of their associated keys.

EXAMPLE

> `values({ "a" : 1, "c" : 2, "b" : 3 })` returns `[1, 3, 2]`

subArray (input is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), startIndex is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns the subarray beginning at `startIndex`

subArray (input is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), startIndex is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), endIndex is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns the subarray `[startIndex, endIndex)`

insertIntoMapOfArrays (mapToInsertInto is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map),
key, value) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Inserts `value` into the array keyed by `key`, returns the updated map

last (elements is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array))

Returns last element of array.

rotateArray (elements is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), step is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns a rotated array of the same elements. `step` less than zero moves
elements towards the front. `step` greater than zero moves elements towards
the back.

EXAMPLE

> `rotateArray([0, 1, 2], -1)` returns `[1, 2, 0]`

insertElementAt (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), index is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), value) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns an array with `value` inserted at `index`.

removeElementAt (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), index is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns an array with the element at `index` removed.

all (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), checkFunction is
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Returns `true` if and only if all elements of an array, when passed into the
`checkFunction`, return `true`.

EXAMPLE

> `all([0, 2, 4], function(e){ return e % 2 == 0; })` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `all([], function(e){ return false; })` returns `true`

See also

`all(array)`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arr` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of elements to be checked.   
`checkFunction` | `[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)`| A unary function that returns a boolean.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| `true` if and only if all
`checkFunction(element)` calls return `true`.  
  
all (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Returns true if all elements in the passed array are `true`.

EXAMPLE

> `all([])` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `all([false, false, true])` returns `false`

EXAMPLE

> `all([true, true, true])` returns `true`

See also

`all(array, function)`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arr` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of booleans.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| `true` if and only if all
`element`s are `true`.  
  
allCombinations (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Creates all possible combinations from arrays of values for each element.

EXAMPLE

> `allCombinations([[1,2], [3,4]])` returns `[[1,3], [1,4], [2,3], [2,4]]`

EXAMPLE

> `allCombinations([[0, 1, 2, 3]])` returns `[[0], [1], [2], [3]]`

EXAMPLE

> `allCombinations([[], [0, 1, 2]])` returns `[]`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arr` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of arrays, where each array represents all possible values for the given array's index in the returned arrays.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of all possible combinations
that have exactly one element from each of the input arrays.  
  
any (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), check is
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Returns `true` if any element of an array, when passed into the `check`
function, returns `true`.

EXAMPLE

> `any([1, 3, 4], function(e){ return e % 2 == 0; })` returns `true`

EXAMPLE

> `any([], function(e){ return true; })` returns `false`

See also

`any(array)`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arr` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of elements.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| `true` if and only if at least one
`check(element)` call returns `true`.  
  
any (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Returns true if any element in the passed array is `true`.

EXAMPLE

> `any([])` returns `false`

EXAMPLE

> `any([false, false, true])` returns `true`

See also

`any(array, function)`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arr` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of booleans.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| `true` if and only if at least one
`element` is `true`.  
  
average (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array))

Returns the average of an array. All array elements must be mutually addable
and divisible by a number.

EXAMPLE

> `average([1, 2, 3, 4])` returns `2.5`

EXAMPLE

> `average([vector([1, 0, 0])*meter, vector([0, 0, 0])*meter, vector([0, 1,
> 0])*meter])` returns `vector(1/3, 1/3, 0) * meter`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arr` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of mutually addable and divisible elements.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
| The average of values in the passed in array.  
  
deduplicate (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Deduplicate an array. Maintains original array order, eliminating all but the
first occurrence of a given duplicate.

EXAMPLE

> `deduplicate([1, 2, 1, 3, 2, 0, 0])` returns `[1, 2, 3, 0]`

EXAMPLE

> `deduplicate([])` returns `[]`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arr` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of values to be deduplicated.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of deduplicated values.  
  
foldArray (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), seed, foldFunction is
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function))

Folds an array from left to right with a `foldFunction`.

EXAMPLE

> `foldArray([1, 2, 3], 0, function(accumulator, element) { return accumulator
> + element; })` returns `6`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arr` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array to fold.   
`seed` | | The initial value of the accumulator to be passed into the `foldFunction`.   
`foldFunction` | `[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)`| A binary function which takes in an accumulator (the seed for the first iteration, and the result of the previous call for subsequent iterations) and an element of the passed in array.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
| The accumulator after all elements of `arr` have been folded.  
  
foldArray (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), foldFunction is
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function))

Calls `foldArray` with the `seed` set to the first element of `arr`.

See also

`foldArray`

mapArrayIndices (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), mapIndexFunction
is [function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns a new array, with the same size as `arr`, created by mapping each
index of `arr` through a `mapIndexFunction`.

EXAMPLE

> `const myArray = [1, 3, 5]; mapArrayIndices(myArray, function(i) { return
> myArray[i] + myArray[ (i+1) % size(myArray)]; })` returns `[4, 8, 6]`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`mapIndexFunction` | `[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)`| A function which takes in one argument (an index of the input array) and returns a value.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| The results of calling
`mapIndexFunction` on the indices of all elements in the passed in `arr`.  
  
mapValue (value, mapFunction is [function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function))

Map a value using a mapFunction and return the result. Particularly useful
when using a lambda function inline to dynamically change some value.

EXAMPLE

> `mapValue(4, function(n){ return n+1; })` returns `5`

EXAMPLE

> `couldBeUndefined->mapValue(function(v){ return v == undefined ? 'a great
> default' : v; })`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | | Anything that the passed in mapFunction will accept as a parameter.   
`mapFunction` | `[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)`| A function that will be called on the passed in `value`.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
| The result of calling `mapFunction` with `value`.  
  
memoizeFunction (f is [function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)) returns
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)

Memoize a unary (one-parameter) function. Once memoized, if the returned
function is called with the same parameter twice, the second return value will
be fetched from an internal cache. This can dramatically speed up calculations
- particularly when `f` is called with the same parameter many times. The
overhead of memoizing a function is negligible. Note that memoization will not
properly work with functions that have side effects, such as modifying a box.

EXAMPLE

>
>     const square = memoizeFunction(function(n){ return n^2; });
>     println(square(5)); // calls f internally and prints 25
>     println(square(5)); // retrieves cached value of 25 and returns it
>  

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`f` | `[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)`| A unary function to be memoized.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)`| A memoized function that will
return the same thing as f.  
  
mergeMaps (defaults, keyList is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), newNode)

Merge maps at a particular location as specified by the `keyList`. If either
the destination node specified by the `keyList` or the `newNode` is not a map,
the `newNode` will replace the destination node.

EXAMPLE

> `mergeMaps({ a: [ { b: 2 } ] }, ['a', 0, 'b'], 4)` returns `{ a : [ { b : 4
> } ] }`

EXAMPLE

> `mergeMaps(5, [], 4)` returns `4`

EXAMPLE

> `mergeMaps({ a : 5 }, ['a'], 4)` returns `{a: 4 }`

See also

`mergeMaps(map, map)`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`defaults` | | A container (array or map) that will be merged at the location specified by the `keyList`. If `defaults` is not an array or map and `keyList` is empty, the result is `newNode` since a merge isn't possible.   
`keyList` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of map keys or array indices that collectively specify a location within `defaults` to perform the merge.   
`newNode` | | A value that will be merged into defaults at the location specified by `keyList`. If the `newNode` specified is a map and the node identified by `keyList` is a map, then this will perform a `mergeMaps` operation.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
| The merged or replaced value.  
  
sum (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array))

Sum an array of elements that are all mutually addable. An empty array returns
0.

EXAMPLE

> `sum(range(0,5))` returns `15`

EXAMPLE

> `sum([vector(1, 2, 3) * meter, vector(4, 5, 6) * meter])` returns `vector(5,
> 7, 9) * meter`

EXAMPLE

> `sum([])` returns `0`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arr` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of mutually addable elements to be summed.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
| The sum of values in the passed in array.  
  
zip (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Makes an array that aggregates elements from each of the arrays. Returns an
array of arrays, where the i-th array contains the i-th element from each of
the argument arrays. The array stops when the shortest input array is
exhausted. With a single array argument, it returns an array of single element
arrays. With no arguments, it returns an empty array.

EXAMPLE

> `zip([range(0,3), range(10,13), range(20,26)])` returns `[[0, 10, 20], [1,
> 11, 21], [2, 12, 22], [3, 13, 23]]`

EXAMPLE

> `zip([])` returns `[]`

EXAMPLE

> `zip([range(0, 3)])` returns `[[0],[1],[2],[3]]`

See also

`zip(array, array)`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arr` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of arrays to aggregate.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array where the i'th element
contains the i'th element from each of the passed in arrays.  
  
zip (a is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), b is
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

An alternative way to call `zip(array)` that facilitates chaining arguments.

EXAMPLE

> `zip(range(0,3), range(1, 4))` returns `[[0, 1], [1, 2], [2, 3], [3, 4]]`

EXAMPLE

> `zip(range(0,3), [])` returns `[]`

See also

`zip(array)`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`a` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| The first array to zip.   
`b` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| The second array to zip.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of length-2 arrays. For the
i'th array, the first element is the i'th element of `a` and the second is the
i'th element of `b`.  
  
## cosmeticThreadUtils

CosmeticThreadData type

Data required to properly render cosmetic threads onto tapped surfaces.

Value| Type| Description | `CosmeticThreadData` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `threadOriginCoordSys`

| `PersistentCoordSystem`| A coordinate system representing the origin of a
thread. For external threads, this represents the center of the circular edge
selected for the thread. For tapped holes, it represents the vertex selected
to create the hole.  
  
  * `threadPitch`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| Pitch of the thread per the
selected ANSI or ISO standard.  
  
  * `tappedDepth`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| Distance from the thread origin to
the thread's termination.  
  
addCosmeticThreadAttribute (context is Context, entities is Query,
cosmeticThreadData is CosmeticThreadData)

Applies a cosmetic thread attribute to the specified entities.

See also

`CosmeticThreadData`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`context` | `Context`| The application context.   
`entities` | `Query`| A query for entities to requiring thread data.   
`cosmeticThreadData` | `CosmeticThreadData`| Data required to properly render tapped threads on faces.   
  
createCosmeticThreadDataFromEntity (threadCoordSys is CoordSystem, tappedDepth
is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), threadPitch is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns CosmeticThreadData

Creates a cosmetic thread data attribute to be applied to face entities using
`addCosmeticThreadAttribute`.

See also

`CosmeticThreadData`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`threadCoordSys` | `CoordSystem`| Coordinate system used to determine the orientation and bounds of the thread. The origin of this coordinate system is considered the starting point of the thread.   
`tappedDepth` | `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| Indicates how far the thread should be rendered from the thread origin.   
`threadPitch` | `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| Distance between each adjacent thread.   
  
## debug

debug (context is Context, value, color is DebugColor)

Print and, if applicable, display `value` in a Part Studio, highlighting or
creating entities in a chosen color, red by default.

The displayed data will ONLY be visible when the feature calling the `debug`
function is being edited. Entities displayed during debug are for display
only, and will not appear in any queries.

Values which can be debugged are:

`Query`: Highlights entities matching the `Query` (bodies, faces, edges, and
vertices) in red.

3D length `Vector`: Displays a single point in world space.

Unitless, normalized 3D `Vector`: Displays an arrow starting at the world
origin, pointing in the given direction.

`Line`: Displays an arrow starting at the line's origin, pointing in the
line's direction.

`CoordSystem`: Displays three perpendicular arrows from the coordinate
system's origin, along its three axes. The arrowhead for the x-axis is
largest, and the z-axis is smallest.

`Plane`: Displays a large square in the positive quadrant of the plane, along
with three arrows along the plane's x-axis, y-axis, and normal.

`Box3d`: Displays the edges of the bounding box (in the given coordinate
system, if provided)

The overloads in this module define these behaviors.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`color` | `DebugColor`|  _Optional_ The color of the debug highlight   
  
debug (context is Context, value)

debug (context is Context, value is ValueWithUnits, color is DebugColor)

debug (context is Context, value is Vector, color is DebugColor)

debug (context is Context, value is Query, color is DebugColor)

debug (context is Context, value is Line, color is DebugColor)

debug (context is Context, value is CoordSystem)

debug (context is Context, value is CoordSystem, color is DebugColor)

debug (context is Context, value is CoordSystem, xColor is DebugColor, yColor
is DebugColor, zColor is DebugColor)

debug (context is Context, value is Plane, color is DebugColor)

debug (context is Context, point1 is Vector, point2 is Vector, color is
DebugColor)

Draws a line between `point1` and `point2` and prints the points with the
distance between them.

debug (context is Context, point1 is Vector, point2 is Vector)

debug (context is Context, boundingBox is Box3d, color is DebugColor)

Displays the edges of a `Box3d` in the world coordinate system with a chosen
`DebugColor`.

debug (context is Context, boundingBox is Box3d, cSys, color is DebugColor)

Displays the edges of a `Box3d` in the given coordinate system with a chosen
`DebugColor`.

EXAMPLE

>
>     const myBox = evBox3d(context, { "topology" : entities, "cSys" : myCSys
> });
>     debug(context, myBox, myCSys, DebugColor.RED);
>  

debug (context is Context, boundingBox is Box3d, cSys)

addDebugEntities (context is Context, entities is Query, color is DebugColor)

Highlights `entities` in a given `DebugColor`, without printing anything.

As with `debug`, highlighted entities are only visible while the debugged
feature's edit dialog is open.

addDebugEntities (context is Context, entities is Query)

addDebugPoint (context is Context, point is Vector, color is DebugColor)

Highlights a 3D `point` in a given `DebugColor`, without printing anything.

As with `debug`, highlighted entities are only visible while the debugged
feature's edit dialog is open.

addDebugPoint (context is Context, point is Vector)

addDebugLine (context is Context, point1 is Vector, point2 is Vector, color is
DebugColor)

Draws a line in 3D space from `point1` to `point2` with a chosen `DebugColor`.

As with `debug`, highlighted entities are only visible while the debugged
feature's edit dialog is open.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`point1` | `Vector`| one endpoint of the line.   
`point2` | `Vector`| the other endpoint of the line.   
  
addDebugLine (context is Context, point1 is Vector, point2 is Vector)

addDebugArrow (context is Context, from is Vector, to is Vector, radius is
ValueWithUnits, color is DebugColor)

Draws an arrow in 3D space from `from` to `to` with a chosen `DebugColor`.

As with `debug`, highlighted entities are only visible while the debugged
feature's edit dialog is open.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`radius` | `ValueWithUnits`| Width of the four arrowhead lines  EXAMPLE

> `.25 * centimeter`  
  
addDebugArrow (context is Context, from is Vector, to is Vector, radius is
ValueWithUnits)

startTimer (timer is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))

Starts the timer associated with the string `timer` or resets it. Use with
`printTimer(string)`.

startTimer ()

Starts the global timer associated with the empty string or resets it. Use
with `printTimer()`.

printTimer (timer is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))

Prints the elapsed milliseconds for the timer associated with the string
`timer`. Use with `startTimer(string)`.

Note that if the timer was set in a prior feature, the elapsed time may be
very large because features can be regenerated at different times.

Throws an error if no such timer has been started.

printTimer ()

Prints the elapsed milliseconds for the global timer associated with the empty
string. Use with `startTimer()`.

Note that if the timer was set in a prior feature, the elapsed time may be
very large because features can be regenerated at different times.

Throws an error if no such timer has been started.

## decalUtils

DecalData type

Data representing a decal that is mapped onto a face.

Value| Type| Description | `DecalData` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `decalId`

| `Id`| A unique id to represent the decal in the context of the face on which
it is placed. The id should correspond to the id of the creating feature, or
be a sub-id of the creating feature.  
  
  * `imageMappingType`

| `ImageMappingType`| The type of projection mapping to use for this decal  
  
  * `image`

| `ImageData`| The image that is being mapped.  
  
  * `uvTransform`

| `TransformUV`| A post-projection transformation that is applied in UV space.
This can be used to further translate, rotate, and scale a projected image.  
  
  * `planeSystem`

| `PersistentCoordSystem`|  _Optional_ A coordinate system representing the
plane for the ImageMappingType.PLANAR type. This field must be defined if the
`imageMappingType` field is of type `ImageMappingType.PLANAR`. The lower-left
corner of the image will project to the plane's origin. The right edge of the
image is along the positive X direction of the coordinate system. The top edge
of the image is along the positive Y direction of the coordinate system. See
`planeToCSys` for deriving a coordinate system from a `Plane` object.  
  
  * `cylinder`

| `Cylinder`|  _Optional_ The cylinder onto which the decal is mapped. This
field must be defined if the `imageMappingType` field is of type
`ImageMappingType.CYLINDRICAL`.  
  
  * `cylinderSystem`

| `PersistentCoordSystem`|  _Optional_ A coordinate system used in projecting
the image onto the given cylinder. This field must be defined if the
`imageMappingType` field is of type `ImageMappingType.CYLINDRICAL`. The
coordinate system's origin must lie on the cylinder's axis with the system's Z
axis aligned with the cylinder's own axis. The center of the horizontal
extents of the image coincide with the intersection of the coordinate system's
x axis and the cylinder. The center of the vertical extents of the image
coincide with the projection of the coordinate system's origin on the
cylinder. The top edge of the image is along the positive Z direction of the
coordinate system projected on the cylinder.  
  
createPlanarDecal (decalId is Id, image is ImageData, planeSystem is
CoordSystem, uvTransform is TransformUV) returns DecalData

Creates data for a planar decal. This can be applied to a face using
`associateDecalAttribute`.

See also

`DecalData`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`decalId` | `Id`| The id to for the decal   
`image` | `ImageData`| The image to use for the data   
`planeSystem` | `CoordSystem`| The coordinate system to use for the planar projection   
`uvTransform` | `TransformUV`| A post-projection transform to apply to the decal   
  
createCylindricalDecal (decalId is Id, image is ImageData, cylinder is
Cylinder, uvTransform is TransformUV) returns DecalData

Creates data for a cylindrical decal. This can be applied to a face using
`associateDecalAttribute`.

See also

`DecalData`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`decalId` | `Id`| The id to for the decal   
`image` | `ImageData`| The image to use for the data   
`cylinder` | `Cylinder`| The cylinder definition to use for projection   
`uvTransform` | `TransformUV`| A post-projection transform to apply to the decal   
  
associateDecalAttribute (context is Context, entities is Query, decalData is
DecalData)

Associate the given decal data as an attribute on the entities provided. This
will append the decal to any existing decals associated with the given
entities.

Associating a decal in this way will cause the data to be transmitted to
Onshape clients where they will be rendered.

createUvTransform (decalWidth is ValueWithUnits, mirrorHorizontal is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean), decalHeight is ValueWithUnits,
mirrorVertical is [boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean), decalRotation is
ValueWithUnits) returns TransformUV

Creates a UV transform suitable for scaling, mirroring, and rotating a decal
after it's been projected.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`decalWidth` | `ValueWithUnits`| The width of the decal, post-transformation   
`mirrorHorizontal` | `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| If true, the image will be mirrored about its center horizontally   
`decalHeight` | `ValueWithUnits`| The height of the decal, post-transformation   
`mirrorVertical` | `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| If true, the image will be mirrored about its center vertically   
`decalRotation` | `ValueWithUnits`| An amount of rotation to apply to decal about the image center.   
  
getWorldSpacePosition (decalData is DecalData, uv is Vector)

Unprojects the given point in UV space to its corresponding world position for
the given decal data. The UV is equivalent to the texture coordinate for the
UV that is ultimately used to render the decal.

See also

`getDecalUvSpacePosition`

getDecalUvSpacePosition (decalData is DecalData, worldPosition is Vector)

Projects the given world position into UV space for the given decal data. The
UV computed is equivalent to the texture coordinate for the UV that is
ultimately used to render the decal.

See also

`getWorldSpacePosition`

IMAGE_SIZE_BOUNDS const

A `LengthBoundSpec` for positive image sizes.

IMAGE_OFFSET_BOUNDS const

A `LengthBoundSpec` for image offsets.

## defaultFeatures

newContextWithDefaults () returns Context

Creates a `Context` with default planes and an origin.

qDefaultBodies () returns Query

A query for all default created bodies in a context, that is, the top, right,
front planes and the origin point.

qFrontPlane (entityType is EntityType) returns Query

A query for the front plane.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`entityType` | `EntityType`| Specify type `FACE` or `BODY`.   
  
qRightPlane (entityType is EntityType) returns Query

A query for the right plane.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`entityType` | `EntityType`| Specify type `FACE` or `BODY`.   
  
qTopPlane (entityType is EntityType) returns Query

A query for the top plane.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`entityType` | `EntityType`| Specify type `FACE` or `BODY`.   
  
qOrigin (entityType is EntityType) returns Query

A query for the origin point.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`entityType` | `EntityType`| Specify type `VERTEX` or `BODY`.   
  
## derive

derive (context is Context, id is Id, buildFunction is
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function), options is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Merges context returned by buildFunction(options.configuration) into context.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`options` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `parts`

| `Query`| Queries resolving to bodies in base context to be preserved.  
  
  * `configuration`

| `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| The configuration of the part studio.  
  
  * `clearSMDataFromAll`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Default is `true`.
If set to `false`, for every part in options.parts belonging to an active
sheet metal model all 3d parts and flats of that sheet metal model survive and
remain active.  
  
  * `filterOutNonModifiable`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Default is `true`.  
  
  * `propagateMergeStatus`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Default is `true`.  
  
  * `noPartsError`

| `ErrorStringEnum`|  _Optional_ Error to be reported if options.parts
resolves to empty array. If field is not specified
ErrorStringEnum.IMPORT_DERIVED_NO_PARTS is used.  
  
  * `noPartsErrorParams`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_  
  
  * `queriesToTrack`

| `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|  _Optional_ Map whose keys are `Query`s
which resolve in the original derived context (that is, the context resulting
from `buildFunction`). If set, the output field `trackingResults` will contain
values which resolve to each query's equivalent entities in the current
`context`.  
  
  * `mateConnectors`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ Array of queries for
mate connectors, to evaluate in the new context. If set, the output field
`mateConnectors` will be a map from each query to its resulting transform.  
  
  * `mateConnectorIds`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ Array of creating
feature ids for mate connectors.  
  
  * `mateConnectorFeatureIndices`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ Array of indices into
mate connectors created by feature.  
  
  * `loadedContext`

| `Context`|  _Optional_ Preloaded context, if available, of the reference.  
Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `mateConnectors`

| `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| Map from mate connector query to
`Transform` to that mate connector  
  
  * `trackingResults`

| `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| Map from `Query` keys of
`queriesToTrack` to each query's value in the new context (given as an array
of transient queries)  
  
## edgeBlendCommon

addFilletControlManipulator (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), manipulatorEntity is Query)

Create a linear manipulator for radius or width parameter

onFilletControlManipulatorChange (context is Context, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), newManipulators is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), manipulatorEntity is Query, widthFieldName
is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

fillet manipulator change function

## error

regenError (customMessage is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

`regenError` functions are used to construct maps for throwing to signal
feature regeneration errors. Can either take a string for a custom message or
an `ErrorStringEnum` for a built-in message. Custom messages are limited to
ASCII characters. Messages longer than 200 characters will not be displayed
fully.

EXAMPLE

> `throw regenError("Failed to attach widget: Boolean union failed")`

EXAMPLE

> `throw regenError("Wall is too thin for this feature", ["wallWidth"]);`

EXAMPLE

> `throw regenError(ErrorStringEnum.POINTS_COINCIDENT, ["points"]);`

regenError (customMessage is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string),
faultyParameters is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`faultyParameters` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of strings that correspond to keys in the feature definition map. Throwing a regenError with faultyParameters will highlight them in red inside the feature dialog.   
  
regenError (customMessage is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), entities
is Query) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`entities` | `Query`| A query for entities to highlight in the Part Studio. Multiple queries can be combined and highlighted using the `qUnion` function. The entities are only highlighted when the feature dialog is open.   
  
regenError (customMessage is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string),
faultyParameters is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), entities is Query)
returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`faultyParameters` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of strings that correspond to keys in the feature definition map. Throwing a `regenError` with `faultyParameters` will highlight them in red inside the feature dialog.   
`entities` | `Query`| A query for entities to highlight in the Part Studio. Multiple queries can be combined and highlighted using the `qUnion` function. The entities are only highlighted when the feature dialog is open.   
  
regenError (message is ErrorStringEnum) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

The following overloads take an `ErrorStringEnum` rather than a custom
message, and are using for all errors within the Onshape Standard Library. The
enum values correspond to messages which can be translated into multiple
languages.

regenError (message is ErrorStringEnum, faultyParameters is
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`faultyParameters` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of strings that correspond to keys in the feature definition map. Throwing a `regenError` with `faultyParameters` will highlight them in red inside the feature dialog.   
  
regenError (message is ErrorStringEnum, entities is Query) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`entities` | `Query`| A query for entities to highlight in the Part Studio. Multiple queries can be combined and highlighted using the `qUnion` function. The entities are only highlighted when the feature dialog is open.   
  
regenError (message is ErrorStringEnum, faultyParameters is
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), entities is Query) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`faultyParameters` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of strings that correspond to keys in the feature definition map. Throwing a `regenError` with `faultyParameters` will highlight them in red inside the feature dialog.   
`entities` | `Query`| A query for entities to highlight in the Part Studio. Multiple queries can be combined and highlighted using the `qUnion` function. The entities are only highlighted when the feature dialog is open.   
  
regenError (message is ErrorStringEnum, regenErrorOptions is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`regenErrorOptions` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `faultyParameters`

| | An array of strings that correspond to keys in the feature definition map. Throwing a `regenError` with `faultyParameters` will highlight them in red inside the feature dialog.   
  
  * `entities`

| | A query for entities to highlight in the Part Studio. Multiple queries can be combined and highlighted using the `qUnion` function. The entities are only highlighted when the feature dialog is open.   
  
regenError (message is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string),
regenErrorOptions is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`regenErrorOptions` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `faultyParameters`

| | An array of strings that correspond to keys in the feature definition map. Throwing a `regenError` with `faultyParameters` will highlight them in red inside the feature dialog.   
  
  * `entities`

| | A query for entities to highlight in the Part Studio. Multiple queries can be combined and highlighted using the `qUnion` function. The entities are only highlighted when the feature dialog is open.   
  
reportFeatureWarning (context is Context, id is Id, message is
ErrorStringEnum) returns [boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Attaches a warning-level status to the given feature id.

reportFeatureWarning (context is Context, id is Id, customMessage is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Attaches a custom warning-level status to the given feature id. Will display a
notification to the user containing the specified message.

reportFeatureWarning (context is Context, id is Id, message is
ErrorStringEnum, associatedParameters is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array))
returns [boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Attaches custom warning-level status to the given feature id. Will display a
notification to the user containing the specified message.

reportFeatureInfo (context is Context, id is Id, message is ErrorStringEnum)
returns [boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Attaches an info-level status to the given feature id. Will display a
notification to the user containing the specified message.

reportFeatureInfo (context is Context, id is Id, message is ErrorStringEnum,
associatedParameters is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Attaches an info-level status to the given feature id. Will display a
notification to the user containing the specified message.

reportFeatureInfo (context is Context, id is Id, customMessage is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Attaches a custom info-level status to the given feature id.

processSubfeatureStatus (context is Context, id is Id, options is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Propagate the status of a subfeature to a feature.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`options` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `subfeatureId`

| `Id`| The Id of the subfeature.  
  
  * `overrideStatus`

| `ErrorStringEnum`|  _Optional_ A status enum to use instead of the
subfeature status enum if the subfeature has an info, warning, or error
status.  
  
  * `featureParameterMap`

| `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|  _Optional_ A mapping of the field names
from subfeature to feature.  
  
  * `featureParameterMappingFunction`

| `[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)`|  _Optional_ A function to map
field names from subfeature to feature.  
  
  * `propagateErrorDisplay`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Use subfeature error
display when present. Default is false.  
  
  * `additionalErrorEntities`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ Additional error entities to display if the subfeature
has an info, warning, or error status.  
  
getFeatureStatus (context is Context, id is Id) returns FeatureStatus

Return the status of a feature as a FeatureStatus

reportFeatureStatus (context is Context, id is Id, status is FeatureStatus)
returns [boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Report the status of a feature

clearFeatureStatus (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Clear the status of a feature to StatusType.OK *

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `withDisplayData`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Clear status display
data attached to feature. Default true.  
  
getFeatureError (context is Context, id is Id)

Returns the error (as a string or an `ErrorStringEnum`) associated with the
given feature id or `undefined` if none.

getFeatureWarning (context is Context, id is Id)

Returns the warning (as a string or an `ErrorStringEnum`) associated with the
given feature id or `undefined` if none.

getFeatureInfo (context is Context, id is Id)

Returns the info status (as a string or an `ErrorStringEnum`) associated with
the given feature id or `undefined` if none.

setErrorEntities (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Causes the given entities to be shown in red. This display is not rolled back
even if the feature fails and the entities themselves are rolled back.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| The entities to display.  
  
featureHasError (context is Context, id is Id) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| `true` if the feature with the
given id has an associated regeneration error.  
  
featureHasNonTrivialStatus (context is Context, id is Id) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| `true` if the feature with the
given id has an associated status different from OK.  
  
faultyArrayParameterId (arrayParameter is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), itemIndex is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), innerParameter is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| A string identifier for marking an
error on an array parameter when using the `faultyParameters` argument in any
of the error reporting functions in `error.fs`.  
  
FeatureStatus type

The status of a feature

Value| Type| Description | `FeatureStatus` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `statusType`

| `StatusType`|  
  
  * `faultyParameters`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  
  
  * `statusEnum`

| `ErrorStringEnum`|  
  
  * `statusMsg`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`|  
  
canBeFeatureStatus (value) predicate

The faultyParameters cannot exist when the statusType is StatusType.OK. The
statusEnum must be ErrorStringEnum.CUSTOM_ERROR if the statusMsg exists.

verify (condition is [boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean), error)

If the condition check fails, this function throws the error.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`condition` | `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| The condition to test.   
`error` | | The error to throw if `condition` is `false`, where `error` is of type `ErrorStringEnum` or `string`.   
  
verify (condition is [boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean), error,
regenErrorOptions is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

If the condition check fails, this function throws the error.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`condition` | `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| The condition to test.   
`error` | | The error to throw if `condition` is `false`, where `error` is of type `ErrorStringEnum` or `string`.   
`regenErrorOptions` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| The key-value pairs to pass to the thrown `regenError`, e.g. `entities` or `faultyParameters`.   
  
## extrudeCommon

SMExtrudeBoundingType enum

Bounding type used with SMProcessType.EXTRUDE

Value| Description  
---|---  
`BLIND` |   
`UP_TO_NEXT` |   
`UP_TO_SURFACE` |   
`UP_TO_BODY` |   
`UP_TO_VERTEX` |   
  
## feature

defineFeature (feature is [function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function), defaults
is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)

This function takes a regeneration function and wraps it to create a feature.
It is exactly like the one-argument version of `defineFeature` but the
additional argument enables setting default values for feature parameters when
they are not passed in.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`defaults` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| A map of default parameter values for when this feature is called in FeatureScript. This does NOT control the user-visible default value when creating this feature. To change the user-visible default for booleans, enums, and strings, use the "Default" annotation. To change the user-visible default for a length, angle, or number, see the `valueBounds` module. EXAMPLE

> `{}` will not modify the `definition`.

EXAMPLE

> `{ "shouldFillet" : false }` will set the parameter `"shouldFillet"` to
> `false` if the feature is called from FeatureScript without the
> "shouldFillet" parameter.  
  
defineFeature (feature is [function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)) returns
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)

This function takes a regeneration function and wraps it to create a feature.
The wrapper handles certain argument recording for the UI and error handling.
A typical usage is something like:

    
    
    annotation { "Feature Type Name" : "Widget" } // This annotation is required for Onshape to recognize widget as a feature.
    export const widget = defineFeature(function(context is Context, id is Id, definition is map)
        precondition
        {
            ... // Specify the parameters that this feature takes
        }
        {
            ... // Specify what the feature does when regenerating
        });
    

For more information on writing features, see `Specifying feature UI` in the
language guide.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`feature` | `[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)`| A function that takes a `context`, an `id`, and a `definition` and regenerates the feature.   
  
startFeature (context is Context, id is Id)

callSubfeatureAndProcessStatus (topLevelId is Id, fn is
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function), context is Context, subfeatureId
is Id, definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

This function can be used to call a subfeature or sub-operation (such as
`extrude` or `opExtrude`, respectively). It will properly handle any statuses
as if they came from the top level feature. That is, reported `INFO` will
display as a blue message bubble, `WARNING` will turn the feature orange with
a warning tooltip on hover, and `ERROR` will throw an error after status
handling (aborting feature execution if it is not caught). Any error entities
that the subfeature emits will also be displayed.

EXAMPLE

> `callSubfeatureAndProcessStatus(id, booleanBodies, context, id + "boolean",
> booleanDefinition);` (where `id` is the top-level feature id passed into the
> feature) will call `booleanBodies(context, id + "boolean",
> booleanDefinition)`, propagate its status onto the current feature, and show
> any error entities coming from the boolean.

Internally, calls the supplied function, and attaches any status it produces
to the `topLevelId` using `processSubfeatureStatus`. If calling the function
produces an error, the error is re-thrown. If the function produces a return
value, that value is returned.

callSubfeatureAndProcessStatus (topLevelId is Id, fn is
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function), context is Context, subfeatureId
is Id, definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map),
processSubfeatureStatusOptions is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

See callSubfeatureAndProcessStatus.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`processSubfeatureStatusOptions` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| Passed as the `definition` argument to `processSubfeatureStatus`. Setting `subfeatureId` in this map is not required, and will be ignored in favor of the `subfeatureId` passed into this function.   
  
forEachEntity (context is Context, id is Id, query is Query,
operationToPerform is [function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function))

Iterate through all entities provided by a query, calling the provided
function once for each geometric entity resolved by the provided `query`.

`forEachEntity` behaves much like the code:

    
    
    const evaluated = evaluateQuery(context, query);
    for (var i = 0; i < size(evaluated); i += 1)
    {
        operationToPerform(id + i, evaluated[i]);
    }
    

However, `forEachEntity` has one additional benefit: The `entId` this function
provides to `operationToPerform` is tied to the entity itself, not its index
`i`. This means that downstream features made in the Part Studio will hold up
better across upstream changes.

For example, imagine the following scenario: A user inserts a custom feature
which places a slot on every selected line. That feature calls
`forEachEntity(context, lineQuery ...)`. The user then makes a sketch
downstream which uses geometry from e.g. the third slot. Finally, the user
decides some slots are unnecessary and deletes some of the lines. Since the
feature used `forEachEntity`, the user's downstream sketch will still
reference the same slots. If the feature instead used the code above, the
user's sketch would break or jump around, since a different slot would
suddenly become "slot 3".

Aside from that difference, the two are interchangable.

Like any expression function, be warned that the provided `operationToPerform`
can read but can NOT modify the values of variables outside the function. It
can, however, modify values inside a
[box](https://cad.onshape.com/FsDoc/variables.html#box).

EXAMPLE

>
>     const allParts = qAllModifiableSolidBodies();
>     const threshold = 0.01 * inch^3;
>     var deletedSizes is box = new box([]); // box containing an empty array
>     forEachEntity(context, id + "deleteSmallParts", allParts,
> function(entity is Query, id is Id)
>     {
>         const size = evVolume(context, {
>                 "entities" : entity
>         });
>         if (size < threshold)
>         {
>             opDeleteBodies(context, id + "deleteBodies1", {
>                     "entities" : entity
>             });
>             deletedSizes[] = append(deletedSizes[], size);
>         }
>     });
>     println(deletedSizes[]);
>  

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`operationToPerform` | `[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)`| EXAMPLE

>
>     function(entity is Query, id is Id)
>     {
>         // perform operations with the entity
>     }
>  

The first argument to this function is a query resolving to one single entity
of the input `query`. The second argument to this function is a unique id tied
to the `entity`. By default it is named "`id`", which will shadow (i.e. take
precedence over) the outer variable named "`id`". If you need access to that
outer `id`, simply rename this argument to e.g. `innerId`.  
  
setFeatureComputedParameter (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Associates a FeatureScript value with a given string. This value can then be
referenced in a feature name using the string. The provided value can be used
in a feature name by including e.g. "#myValue" in the Feature Name Template.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `name`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| EXAMPLE

> `myValue`  
  
  * `value`

| |   
  
getFullPatternTransform (context is Context) returns Transform

When in feature pattern scope returns composition of all pattern transforms
pushed by `setFeaturePatternInstanceData` returns identity transform when out
of scope

getRemainderPatternTransform (context is Context, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns Transform

Making a feature work correctly with feature patterns is usually done with two
functions: this one and `transformResultIfNecessary`.

Feature patterns work by first computing a sequence of transforms, one for
each instance. For each transform, the pattern pushes it onto the pattern
stack (using `setFeaturePatternInstanceData`), executes the patterned
features, and then pops the transform off the stack (using
`unsetFeaturePatternInstanceData`) before pushing the next one. The stack
depth corresponds to the level of nesting of feature patterns. Feature authors
are responsible for reading the pattern stack and transforming themselves
accordingly.

The basic principle is that inside one feature pattern (as opposed to nested
feature patterns), if any entities that the feature references come from a
feature that is also being patterned, then the feature ignores the pattern
transform. Otherwise, the feature uses the pattern transform in a "natural"
way, applying it to an input, the output, or somewhere in between.

For example, suppose the patterned feature creates a 3D line between two
arbitrary vertices. If the first vertex is also patterned, but not the second,
then the result should be a bunch of lines from different instances of the
first vertex to the unpatterned second vertex (this is accomplished by not
applying any transform to the line). If neither vertex is patterned, the line
should be transformed by the pattern transform and the result will be as
expected, as if a body pattern of these lines was performed. Other features
may need to apply the transform differently: for example, a sweep can
transform the result of `opSweep` prior to the boolean, but an extrude needs
to transform the profile prior to `opExtrude` to accommodate up-to-next
correctly.

The general case is more complicated because feature patterns may be nested,
and this function is designed to handle them. This function takes
`references`, a query for everything the feature geometrically depends on
(typically a `qUnion` of the queries in the feature definition), and computes
the portion of the pattern transform that is not applied to any of the
references and hence should be applied to the feature. For example, if one of
the references is patterned by the current feature pattern or if there is no
feature pattern, it will return the identity transform. If `references`
evaluates to nothing, it will return the current feature pattern transform.

More precisely: Among references find topology created by pattern instance
deepest in the pattern transform stack. If the transformation on the stack for
that instance is S and the full transformation is F, the remainder R is such
that R * S = F

A simple feature may use this function and `transformResultIfNecessary` as
follows:

    
    
    ... // Feature definition boilerplate and precondition
        { // Feature body
            // Call getRemainderPatternTransform before performing any operations
            var remainingTransform = getRemainderPatternTransform(context, { "references" : definition.vertexToBuildOn });
            ... // Create a cube using definition.vertexToBuildOn as the reference location
            // Inside a feature pattern, the following will transform the cube if definition.vertexToBuildOn is not getting patterned:
            transformResultIfNecessary(context, id, remainingTransform);
            ... // Perhaps boolean the results to something in the context
        });
    

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `references`

| `Query`|  
  
transformResultIfNecessary (context is Context, id is Id, transform is
Transform)

Applies transformation to bodies created by operation with id if transform
argument is non-trivial

isAnything (value) predicate

A predicate which always returns true. Used to create a generic feature
parameter that can be any featurescript expression.

Note that to change the user-visible default value, the "Default" annotation
must be a string containing a valid parameter expression. For example, to make
the default value the string `"My string"`, pass in an escaped string:
`annotation{ "Default": "\"My string\"" }`.

lastModifyingOperationId (context is Context, query is Query) returns Id

Returns id of operation that created or last modified the first entity to
which `query` resolves.

Throws if `query` resolves to nothing.

startTracking (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns Query

Generates a tracking query, which will evaluate to entities derived from
subquery in features between startTracking and when query is evaluated. If
secondarySubquery is specified, the query would evaluate to entities derived
from both objects. If trackPartialDependency is set to true, query would also
include entities that are not exclusively derived from subquery1. Optional
field lastOperationId can be used to specify the starting operation of
tracking. Use example:

    
    
    // "sketch1" constructs a polygon of "line0", "line1", etc.
    var extrudedFromLine0 = startTracking(context, id + "sketch1", "line0");
    extrudeOp(context, id + "extrude1", {"entities" : qSketchRegion(id + "sketch1",....});
    var fromLine0 = evaluateQuery(context, extrudedFromLine0);
    // fromLine0 contains a face and two edges (top and bottom) corresponding to line0 in the extrude.
    

startTracking (context is Context, subquery is Query) returns Query

startTracking (context is Context, sketchId is Id, sketchEntityId is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns Query

startTrackingIdentity (context is Context, subquery is Query) returns Query

Generates a tracking query, which will evaluate to the new entities inheriting
the identity of subquery evaluation result.

makeRobustQuery (context is Context, subquery is Query) returns Query

Generates query robust to identity-preserving changes

makeRobustQueriesBatched (context is Context, subquery is Query) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Generates array of robust queries for each entity of the subquery

setExternalDisambiguation (context is Context, id is Id, query is Query)

Used to set external disambiguation for operations with unstable component in
id. The disambiguation will be applied to results of sub-operations which
otherwise don't track dependency e.g. `Sketch` , `opPlane`, `opPoint`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`id` | `Id`| ends in unstable component   
  
verifyNonemptyQuery (context is Context, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), parameterName is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), errorToReport is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Throws a `regenError` and marks the specified `Query` parameter as faulty if
the specified `Query` parameter is not a `Query` which resolves to at least
one entity. This happens when the user has not made any selection into the
`Query` parameter, or when upstream geometry has changed such that the
`Query`s of the `Query` parameter no longer resolve to anything. Should be
used to check all non-optional `Query` parameters in a feature. By convention,
`errorToReport` should take the form "Select parameter display name." For
example, a parameter declared as follows:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "Entities to use", "Filter" : EntityType.FACE }
    definition.entitiesToUse is Query;
    

should verify that the input is nonempty in the following way:

EXAMPLE

> `verifyNonemptyQuery(context, definition, "entitiesToUse", "Select entities
> to use.")`

Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array representing the result of
evaluating the `Query` parameter with `evaluateQuery`  
  
verifyNonemptyArray (context is Context, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), parameterName is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), errorToReport is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))

Throws a `regenError` and marks the specified array parameter as faulty if the
specified array parameter does not have any entries. A parameter declared as
follows:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "Array items", "Item name" : "Array item" }
    definition.arrayItems is array;
    for (var arrayItem in definition.arrayItems)
    {
       ...
    }
    

could verify that the input is nonempty in the following way:

EXAMPLE

> `verifyNonemptyArray(context, definition, "arrayItems", "Add an array
> item.")`

verifyNoMesh (context is Context, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), parameterName is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))

Verifies that the `definition[parameterName]` `Query` does not contain mesh or
mixed entities. Throws a `regenError` if `definition[parameterName]`
references mesh topologies.

verifyNoMeshInBody (context is Context, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), parameterName is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))

Verifies no body containing the specified query contains any mesh.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`context` | `Context`| The application context.   
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| The feature definition.   
`parameterName` | `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| The key of `definition` that will be accessed to find the query.   
  
adjustAngle (context is Context, angle is ValueWithUnits) returns
ValueWithUnits

Adjust angle out of bounds angles to lie in `[0 to 2pi]` if the feature is
new, do a range check otherwise.

isButton (value) predicate

True if the value is undefined and creates a button parameter.

setFeatureHiddenParameters (context is Context, id is Id, parameters is
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array))

Hide the provided parameters from the feature dialog. Currently only supports
array elements (e.g. "arrayParameter\\[2\\]")

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`parameters` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of parameter ids that we want to hide in the feature dialog.  
  
## featureList

Support functions for feature lists (as used for featurePattern)

FeatureList type

Parameter type for inputting a list of features, stored as a map from feature
`Id` to feature function. For an example, see the `circularPattern` module.

canBeFeatureList (value) predicate

Typecheck for `FeatureList`

featureList (features is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns FeatureList

Takes a map from id to lambda to return it as type FeatureList

valuesSortedById (context is Context, idToValue is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Takes a context and a map whose keys are subfeature ids from that context.
Returns the values from that map sorted in the order that the subfeatures were
started.

## flatOperationType

FlatOperationType enum

Types of flat operations supported by `SMFlatOp`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`ADD` |   
`REMOVE` |   
  
## formedUtils

setFormAttribute (context is Context, bodies is Query, attribute is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))

Attach the given FormAttribute to the `bodies`.

qBodiesWithFormAttribute (attribute is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))

Query for all bodies marked with a FormAttribute and value exactly equal to
`attribute`

See also

`setFormAttribute`

qBodiesWithFormAttribute (queryToFilter is Query, attribute is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns Query

Query for all bodies in `queryToFilter` marked with a FormAttribute and value
exactly equal to `attribute`

See also

`setFormAttribute`

qBodiesWithFormAttributes (queryToFilter is Query, attributes is
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns Query

Query for all bodies in `queryToFilter` marked with a FormAttribute and value
exactly equal to one of the `attributes`

See also

`setFormAttribute`

computeFormArtifactsToDelete (context is Context, bodiesToKeep is Query,
toDelete is Query) returns Query

Used in derived to ensure that form bodies attached to flat pattern about to
be deleted are also deleted BEL-238166

## frameAttributes

FrameTopologyType enum

The possible types of a `FrameTopologyAttribute`.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`SWEPT_FACE` | The side faces of a frame, swept from the edges of the profile   
`SWEPT_EDGE` | The side edges of a frame, swept from the vertices of the profile   
`CAP_FACE` | The start and end cap faces of a frame   
  
FrameProfileAttribute type

An attribute attached to the frame profile and the constructed frame body
which defines the default cutlist associated with the frame.

frameProfileAttribute (value is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
FrameProfileAttribute

Construct a `FrameProfileAttribute`.

getFrameProfileAttributes (context is Context, frames is Query)

Get all `FrameProfileAttribute`s attached to the `frames`.

getFrameProfileAttribute (context is Context, frame is Query)

Get the `FrameProfileAttribute` attached to the `frame`. Throw if a single
attribute is not found.

setFrameProfileAttribute (context is Context, frame is Query, attribute is
FrameProfileAttribute)

Attach the given `FrameProfileAttribute` to the `frame`.

FrameTopologyAttribute type

An attribute assigned to certain faces and edges of the frames to aid in
tracking the frame as it changes over the series of frame-altering features.

frameTopologyAttributeForSwept (topologyType is FrameTopologyType) returns
FrameTopologyAttribute

Construct a `FrameTopologyAttribute` for `SWEPT_*` types.

See also

`frameTopologyAttributeForCapFace`

frameTopologyAttributeForCapFace (isStartFace is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean), isFrameTerminus is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean), isCompositeTerminus is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)) returns FrameTopologyAttribute

Construct a `FrameTopologyAttribute` for `CAP_FACE`.

See also

`frameTopologyAttributeForSwept`

getFrameTopologyAttributes (context is Context, faces is Query)

Get all `FrameTopologyAttribute`s attached to the `faces`.

getFrameTopologyAttribute (context is Context, face is Query)

Get the `FrameTopologyAttribute` attached to the `face`. Throw if a single
attribute is not found.

setFrameTopologyAttribute (context is Context, entities is Query, attribute is
FrameTopologyAttribute)

Attach the given `FrameTopologyAttribute` to each of the `entities`.

CutlistAttribute type

An attribute attached to the composite created by the Cutlist feature which
contains the cutlist table for that composite.

cutlistAttribute (featureId is Id, table is Table) returns CutlistAttribute

Construct a `CutlistAttribute`.

getCutlistAttributes (context is Context, composites is Query)

Get all `CutlistAttribute`s attached to the `composites`.

getCutlistAttribute (context is Context, composite is Query)

Get the `getCutlistAttribute` attached to the `composite`. Throw if a single
attribute is not found.

setCutlistAttribute (context is Context, composite is Query, attribute is
CutlistAttribute)

Attach the given `CutlistAttribute` to the `composite`.

setCustomFrameAlignmentPointAttribute (context is Context, pointsQuery is
Query)

Sets an attribute on the sketch entity point queries for later discovery and
use during frame creation.

getCustomFrameAlignmentPoints (context is Context, profileId is Id) returns
Query

Finds the sketch points in the `profileId` sketch with the custom alignment
point attribute.

## holeUtils

HoleStyle enum

Defines whether each hole should have a countersink, a counterbore, or
neither.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`SIMPLE` |   
`C_BORE` |   
`C_SINK` |   
  
HoleProfile type

Describes a single profile for a `HoleDefinition`.

See also

`holeProfile` for standard circular profiles.

`holeProfileBeforeReference` for a circular profile meant to be used as the
first profile of the hole.

`matchedHoleProfile` for a profile that geometrically matches the
`HolePositionReference`.

Value| Type| Description | `HoleProfile` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `positionReference`

| `HolePositionReference`| The reference along the hole axis to which this
profile is relative.  
  
  * `beforeReference`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether the
`position` of the profile should reference the start or end of the given
`positionReference`. See `holeProfileBeforeReference` for more detail. Default
is `false` if not provided. Only considered when `profileType` is
`POSITIONED`, ignored otherwise.  
  
  * `profileType`

| `HoleProfileType`| How the profile should be constructed in relation to the
given `positionReference`  
  
  * `position`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`profileType` is `POSITIONED`_The position of
the profile along the hole axis, relative to the given `positionReference`.  
  
  * `radius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The radius of the profile. Can be `0` to specify that the
profile forms a point.  
  
  * `targetMustDifferFromPrevious`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If `true`, instructs
`opHole` to skip the construction of any holes in which the target referenced
by this profile's `positionReference` is not different than the target
reference by the previous profile's `positionReference`. Cannot be set to
`true` on the first profile or any profile that does not have a different
`positionReference` than the previous profile. Default is `false`.  
  
  * `notApplicableForFirstTarget`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ If `true`, instructs
`opHole` to skip the profiles in which the target referenced by this profile's
`positionReference` is not different than the target reference by the
GBTHolePositionReference::TARGET_START. Cannot be set to `true` on the first
profile Default is `false`.  
  
  * `name`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`|  _Optional_ A name for to assign
to the edge created by `opHole` which corresponds to this profile. Supplying a
`name` allows for the querying of profile edges by name when using
`qOpHoleProfile`.  
  
canBeHoleProfile (value) predicate

Typecheck for `HoleProfile`

holeProfile (positionReference is HolePositionReference, position is
ValueWithUnits, radius is ValueWithUnits, optionalParameters is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns HoleProfile

Returns a new circular `HoleProfile` at a given `position` in relation to the
end of the range of the `positionReference`. See `HolePositionReference` for
further detail about the range of the `positionReference`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`optionalParameters` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `targetMustDifferFromPrevious`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ See `HoleProfile`.  
  
  * `notApplicableForFirstTarget`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ See `HoleProfile`.  
  
  * `name`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`|  _Optional_ See `HoleProfile`.  
  
holeProfile (positionReference is HolePositionReference, position is
ValueWithUnits, radius is ValueWithUnits) returns HoleProfile

holeProfileBeforeReference (positionReference is HolePositionReference,
position is ValueWithUnits, radius is ValueWithUnits, optionalParameters is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns HoleProfile

Returns a new circular `HoleProfile` at a given `position` in relation to the
beginning of the range of the `positionReference`. See `HolePositionReference`
for further detail about the range of the `positionReference`. This type of
profile is useful as the first profile of a hole, such that if the hole
cylinder intersects the first target at a slanted or otherwise irregular face,
the first profile is backed up enough such that when the hole tool is
subtracted from the target, there is no undesirable overhang left behind.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`optionalParameters` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `targetMustDifferFromPrevious`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ See `HoleProfile`.  
  
  * `notApplicableForFirstTarget`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ See `HoleProfile`.  
  
  * `name`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`|  _Optional_ See `HoleProfile`.  
  
holeProfileBeforeReference (positionReference is HolePositionReference,
position is ValueWithUnits, radius is ValueWithUnits) returns HoleProfile

matchedHoleProfile (positionReference is HolePositionReference, radius is
ValueWithUnits, optionalParameters is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns HoleProfile

Returns a new `HoleProfile` that is geometrically matched to the
`positionReference`. This is useful for configurations like blind-in-last,
where a transition from one radius to another must be made that matches the
shape of the position reference, to avoid the hole tool intersecting
incorrectly with the part(s) in question. To form a valid `HoleDefinition`,
`MATCHED` profiles must come in pairs of different radii.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`optionalParameters` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `targetMustDifferFromPrevious`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ See `HoleProfile`.  
  
  * `notApplicableForFirstTarget`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ See `HoleProfile`.  
  
  * `name`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`|  _Optional_ See `HoleProfile`.  
  
matchedHoleProfile (positionReference is HolePositionReference, radius is
ValueWithUnits) returns HoleProfile

HoleDefinition type

Describes the shape of a hole using a series of `HoleProfile`s.

See also

`opHole`

Value| Type| Description | `HoleDefinition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `profiles`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of `HoleProfile`s which
define the shape of the hole. The profiles are interpreted in order, from the
top to the bottom of the hole. The final profile must have a radius of `0`.
Each profile must specify a unique `name`, or all of the profiles must leave
their `name` field `undefined`. If two or more adjacent profiles in the list
end up being identical (in the same position with the same radius) when their
final placement is determined in `opHole`, the identical profiles will be
collapsed into a single profile, which uses the name of the first of the
identical profiles.  
  
  * `faceNames`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Optional_ A list of names to
assign to the faces created by `opHole`. Should be the same length as the
`profiles` array, where `faceNames[i]` is the name of the face created between
profiles `i - 1` and `i`, and `faceNames[0]` is the name of the top cap face
(the face before profile `0`). If any profiles are collapsed, the names of the
faces between the collapsed profiles are skipped. Supplying `faceNames` allows
for the querying of faces by name when using `qOpHoleFace`.  
  
canBeHoleDefinition (value) predicate

Typecheck for `HoleDefinition`

holeDefinition (profiles is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array),
optionalParameters is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns HoleDefinition

Returns a new `HoleDefinition`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`optionalParameters` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `faceNames`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`|  _Optional_ See `HoleDefinition`.  
  
holeDefinition (profiles is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
HoleDefinition

## instantiator

The instantiator makes it easy to efficiently bring in (possibly configured)
bodies from other Part Studios and place them at specific positions and
orientations. The usage pattern is generally as follows:

    
    
    firstPartStudio::import(...);
    secondPartStudio::import(...);
    // later, in a feature
    const instantiator = newInstantiator(id + "myId");
    var firstQuery = addInstance(instantiator, firstPartStudio::build, {
                                     "configuration" : { "configurationInput" : configurationValue },
                                     "transform"     : transform(vector(1, 2, 3) * inch)
                                 });
    var secondQuery = addInstance(instantiator, secondPartStudio::build, {
                                      "configuration" : secondConfiguration,
                                      "transform"     : someOtherTransform,
                                      "mateConnector" : queryForMateConnectorInSecondPartStudio // Specifies the origin
                                  });
    // repeat the above as necessary
    instantiate(context, instantiator); // This call actually brings in the bodies
    // Now firstQuery and secondQuery will resolve to the instantiated geometry
    

Internally, the instantiator groups all added instances by Part Studio and
configuration. The final call to `instantiate()` is optimized so that any
duplicates of the same Part Studio and the same configuration are patterned
instead of re-derived, resulting in better performance and scalability for
features instantiating the same bodies multiple times.

Instantiator type

Stores the data associated with using instantiator functionality.

canBeInstantiator (value) predicate

Typecheck for Instantiator

newInstantiator (id is Id) returns Instantiator

Creates a new instantiator with the specified id and default options.

newInstantiator (id is Id, options is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns Instantiator

Creates a new instantiator.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`id` | `Id`| The root id for all instances that will be created by this instantiator. Multiple instantiators can be used simultaneously, as long as they have different ids.   
`options` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|  _Optional_  
  
  * `partQuery`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ The query for all bodies to be brought in from the part
studios. Default is all bodies except sketches.  
  
  * `tolerances`

| `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|  _Optional_ The tolerances for variable
configuration inputs. Default is 1e-8 meters for lengths, 1e-11 radians for
angles, and 0 for numbers. The default tolerances for lengths, angles, and
numbers can be specified using the `(LENGTH_UNITS)`, `(ANGLE_UNITS)`, and
`(unitless)` keys, respectively. The tolerance for a specific configuration
input can be specified using that input name as the key.  EXAMPLE

> `{ (LENGTH_UNITS) : 1e-4 * meter, (unitless) : 1e-8, "count" : 0 }` causes
> length configuration variables that differ by less than 1e-4 meters to be
> considered identical, as well as numberical configuration variables that
> differ by less than 1e-8, except that configuration variables named "count"
> are compared exactly.  
  
addInstance (instantiator is Instantiator, build is
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function), definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns Query

Adds an instance to the instantiator (does not actually create it in a
context) with the given build function. The definition can specify the
configuration, the transform, and how the result is identified.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `configuration`

| `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|  _Optional_ The configuration of the
part studio.  
  
  * `partQuery`

| `query`|  _Optional_ A query which evaluates to bodies in new context, to be
instantiated for this instance. If absent `partQuery` of instantiator is used.
When present, overrides `partQuery` of the instantiator.  
  
  * `transform`

| `Transform`|  _Optional_ The transform to be applied to the geometry.  
  
  * `mateConnector`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ A query for all mate connectors from the part studio
being instantiated, specifying its coordinate system.  
  
  * `mateConnectorId`

| `Id`|  _Optional_ Creating feature Id of the mate connector used for
transformation.  
  
  * `mateConnectorIndex`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Optional_ Index into the
creating feature of the mate connector used for transformation.  
  
  * `name`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`|  _Optional_ The id component for
this instance. Must be unique per instantiator. If it is not specified, one is
automatically generated based on order. If it is specified, the query returned
is `qCreatedBy(id + name, EntityType.BODY)`, where `id` is the id that was
passed into `newInstantiator`  
  
  * `identity`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ If provided, specifies an entity whose identity
controls the identity of the instance, so that queries for the instance can be
robust. For example, if creating instances based on a layout sketch, one
instance per line segment, the identity should be a query for the
corresponding line segment.  
  
  * `loadedContext`

| `Context`| If a preloaded context is provided, use this context  
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`Query`| a query that will resolve to the bodies instantiated once
`instantiate` is run.  
  
addInstance (instantiator is Instantiator, partStudio is PartStudioData,
definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns Query

Add an instance with the buildFunction, partQuery, and configuration of a
PartStudioData value.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `transform`

| `Transform`|  _Optional_ The transform to be applied to the geometry.  
  
  * `mateConnector`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ A query for a mate connector in the part studio being
instantiated, specifying its coordinate system.  
  
  * `mateConnectorId`

| `Id`|  _Optional_ Creating feature Id of the mate connector used for
transformation.  
  
  * `mateConnectorIndex`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Optional_ Index into the
creating feature of the mate connector used for transformation.  
  
  * `configurationOverride`

| `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|  _Optional_ If set, the values will be
merged with the configuration set in `partStudio`, overriding any
configuration inputs with matching keys.  
  
  * `name`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`|  _Optional_ The id component for
this instance. Must be unique per instantiator. If it is not specified, one is
automatically generated based on order. If it is specified, the query returned
is `qCreatedBy(id + name, EntityType.BODY)`, where `id` is the id that was
passed into `newInstantiator`  
  
  * `identity`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ If provided, specifies an entity whose identity
controls the identity of the instance, so that queries for the instance can be
robust. For example, if creating instances based on a layout sketch, one
instance per line segment, the identity should be a query for the
corresponding line segment.  
  
  * `loadedContext`

| `Context`| If a preloaded context is provided use this context  
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`Query`| a query that will resolve to the bodies instantiated once
`instantiate` is run.  
  
addInstance (instantiator is Instantiator, partStudio is PartStudioData)
returns Query

Add an instance with the buildFunction, partQuery, and configuration of a
PartStudioData value.

Return type| Description  
---|---  
`Query`| a query that will resolve to the bodies instantiated once
`instantiate` is run.  
  
instantiate (context is Context, instantiator is Instantiator)

Create the instances (in the provided context) that were added to the
instantiator

## libraryValidation

LibraryValidationProblems type

A container for a list of distinct problems found when validating a part
studio for use in a library

## manipulator

A manipulator is an alternative, graphical UI for controlling a feature's
definition. For example, in Onshape's `extrude` feature, the arrow which
appears at the end of a blind extrusion is a manipulator controlling the
`depth` parameter. A manipulator can be one of a few `ManipulatorTypes`, which
are generally draggable arrows designed to control different degrees of
freedom.

The manipulator is added inside the feature function, and will be rendered
whenever that feature is being edited. Changes to a manipulator will be
processed by a `"Manipulator Change Function"` associated with the feature.

A small example using a manipulator to control the depth and direction of an
`opExtrude` is below:

    
    
    annotation { "Feature Type Name" : "Fake extrude",
            "Manipulator Change Function" : "fakeExtrudeManipulatorChange" }
    export const fakeExtrude = defineFeature(function(context is Context, id is Id, definition is map)
        precondition
        {
            annotation { "Name" : "Faces to extrude", "Filter" : EntityType.FACE }
            definition.faces is Query;
            annotation { "Name" : "My Length" }
            isLength(definition.depth, LENGTH_BOUNDS);
            annotation { "Name" : "Opposite direction", "UIHint" : UIHint.OPPOSITE_DIRECTION }
            definition.shouldFlip is boolean;
        }
        {
            var extrudePlane is Plane = evFaceTangentPlane(context, {
                    "face" : definition.faces,
                    "parameter" : vector(0.5, 0.5)
            });
            var extrudeManipulator is Manipulator = linearManipulator({
                    "base" : extrudePlane.origin,
                    "direction" : extrudePlane.normal,
                    "offset" : definition.shouldFlip ? definition.depth : -definition.depth,
                    "primaryParameterId" : "depth"
            });
            addManipulators(context, id, {
                    "myManipulator" : extrudeManipulator
            });
            opExtrude(context, id + "extrude1", {
                    "entities" : definition.faces,
                    "direction" : definition.shouldFlip ? extrudePlane.normal : -extrudePlane.normal,
                    "endBound" : BoundingType.BLIND,
                    "endDepth" : definition.depth
            });
        }, {});
    export function fakeExtrudeManipulatorChange(context is Context, definition is map, newManipulators is map) returns map
    {
        var newDepth is ValueWithUnits = newManipulators["myManipulator"].offset;
        definition.depth = abs(newDepth);
        definition.shouldFlip = newDepth > 0;
        return definition;
    }
    

The manipulator change function is responsible for changing the definition
such that the feature will regenerate correctly. It may change the definition
in any way, and need not be restricted to the pattern of one manipulator
changing one parameter.

The feature function is only aware of the definition passed in; it makes no
distinction about whether the definition was produced from a manipulator
change, or by a change in the feature dialog, or by another custom feature.

Manipulator type

A `Manipulator` is a type which can be passed into `addManipulators`,
containing the necessary information to position the manipulator in the
context. Altered copies of these manipulators are passed into a manipulator
change function as `newManipulators`.

Can be constructed with `triadManipulator`, `linearManipulator`, and other
functions below.

canBeManipulator (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Manipulator`

triadManipulator (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
Manipulator

Create a manipulator represented by a triad of perpendicular arrows, aligned
with the world axes, which specify a 3D position. See `transformCopy` for an
example.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `base`

| | The position of the manipulator when the offset is `0`.   
  
  * `offset`

| | The 3D position of the triad, relative to the `base`.   
  
  * `sources`

| | _Optional_ For Onshape internal use.   
  
fullTriadManipulator (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
Manipulator

Create a manipulator represented by a triad of perpendicular arrows, planes,
angular position handles, which specify 3D transform.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `base`

| | The coordinate system the manipulator is aligned with when `transform` is the identity transform. Default is WORLD_COORD_SYSTEM.   
  
  * `transform`

| | The 3D transform of the triad, relative to the `base` coordinate system.   
  
  * `displayEditView`

| | _Optional_ if true, display an edit text box when doing a linear drag or a rotation. Default is false.   
  
  * `dragType`

| | _Optional_ Which part of the manipulator is being dragged, if any. Only used in manipulator handling.   
  
triadManipulator (base is Vector, offset is Vector, sources) returns
Manipulator

**Deprecated:** _Use`triadManipulator(map)` _

linearManipulator (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
Manipulator

Create a manipulator represented by a single arrow which can move along a
single axis. See `extrude` for an example.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `base`

| | The position of the manipulator when the offset is `0`.   
  
  * `direction`

| | A 3D unit vector pointing on the axis on which the manipulator can be dragged.   
  
  * `offset`

| | The positive or negative distance along `direction` from the base to the manipulator.   
  
  * `sources`

| | _Optional_ For Onshape internal use.   
  
  * `minValue`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Optional_ The minimum offset allowed.  
  
  * `maxValue`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Optional_ The maximum offset allowed.  
  
  * `style`

| `ManipulatorStyleEnum`|  _Optional_  
  
  * `primaryParameterId`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`|  _Optional_ The id of the
`definition` field which is being manipulated. When set, the feature dialog
focus will be shifted to the parameter in question when the manipulator is
manipulated.  
  
linearManipulator (base is Vector, direction is Vector, offset is
ValueWithUnits, sources, style is ManipulatorStyleEnum) returns Manipulator

**Deprecated:** _Use`linearManipulator(map)` _

linearManipulator (base is Vector, direction is Vector, offset is
ValueWithUnits, sources) returns Manipulator

**Deprecated:** _Use`linearManipulator(map)` _

linearManipulator (base is Vector, direction is Vector, offset is
ValueWithUnits) returns Manipulator

**Deprecated:** _Use`linearManipulator(map)` _

angularManipulator (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
Manipulator

Create a manipulator represented by a curved arrow which can move along a
circumference to specify an angle, with the start and end of the rotation
angle delimited by radial lines. See `revolve` for an example.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `axisOrigin`

| `Vector`| The origin of the axis to rotate around.  EXAMPLE

> `project(axis, rotationOrigin)`  
  
  * `axisDirection`

| `Vector`| The direction of the axis to rotate around.  EXAMPLE

> `axis.direction`  
  
  * `rotationOrigin`

| `Vector`| Point at the tip of the revolve manipulator.  
  
  * `angle`

| `ValueWithUnits`| Current angle value of the manipulator.  
  
  * `sources`

| | _Optional_ For Onshape internal use.   
  
  * `minValue`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Optional_ The minimum angle allowed.  
  
  * `maxValue`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Optional_ The maximum angle allowed.  
  
  * `style`

| `ManipulatorStyleEnum`|  _Optional_  
  
  * `primaryParameterId`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`|  _Optional_ The id of the
`definition` field which is being manipulated. When set, the feature dialog
focus will be shifted to the parameter in question when the manipulator is
manipulated.  
  
  * `disableMinimumOffset`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Removes the minimum
offset between the arrow and `axisOrigin`.  
  
pointsManipulator (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
Manipulator

A set of points which can be selected one at a time.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `points`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| Array of 3d locations for points  
  
  * `index`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| The index of the currently
selected point  
  
togglePointsManipulator (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns Manipulator

A series of points which can each be selected individually.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `points`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| Array of 3d locations for points  
  
  * `selectedIndices`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| The indices of the currently
selected points  
  
  * `suppressedIndices`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| The indices of any non-selectable
points  
  
flipManipulator (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
Manipulator

Create a manipulator represented by a single arrow which flips direction when
clicked.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `base`

| `Vector`| A 3d point at the manipulator's origin  EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 0, 0) * meter`  
  
  * `direction`

| `Vector`| A 3d vector pointing in the unflipped direction  EXAMPLE

> `vector(0, 0, 1)` points manipulator along the z axis  
  
  * `flipped`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| EXAMPLE

> `false` points the manipulator along +direction

EXAMPLE

> `true` points the manipulator along -direction, or otherDirection if defined  
  
  * `sources`

| | _Optional_ For Onshape internal use.   
  
  * `style`

| `ManipulatorStyleEnum`|  _Optional_  
  
  * `otherDirection`

| `Vector`|  _Optional_ A 3d vector for the flipped direction  
  
flipManipulator (base is Vector, direction is Vector, flipped is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean), sources, style is
ManipulatorStyleEnum) returns Manipulator

**Deprecated:** _Use`flipManipulator(map)` _

flipManipulator (base is Vector, direction is Vector, flipped is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean), sources) returns Manipulator

**Deprecated:** _Use`flipManipulator(map)` _

flipManipulator (base is Vector, direction is Vector, flipped is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)) returns Manipulator

**Deprecated:** _Use`flipManipulator(map)` _

addManipulators (context is Context, id is Id, manipulators is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Add a manipulator to this feature, which will be visible and interactable when
a user edits the feature.

`addManipulators` should be called within the feature function, with the
offset on the added manipulator set to match the state of the definition.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`manipulators` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| A `map` whose keys will match the keys of `newManipulators` (passed into the Manipulator Change Function), and whose values are the `Manipulators` to be added.   
  
## path

Path type

Represents a series of connected edges which form a continuous path.

Value| Type| Description | `Path` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `edges`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| The edges that form this Path, in
the order of the Path.  
  
  * `flipped`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of booleans corresponding
to each edge in the path, set to `true` to traverse the edge backwards.  
  
  * `closed`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether the Path is a closed
path.  
  
  * `adjacentFaces`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ All adjacent faces on one side of the Path.  
  
canBePath (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Path`

PathDistanceInformation type

Distance information returned by `constructPath` and `evPathTangentLines` when
either function is provided with `referenceGeometry`

Value| Type| Description | `PathDistanceInformation` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `distance`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The distance between the the start of the `Path` and the
center of the bounding box of `referenceGeometry`, or infinity if
`referenceGeometry` is empty  
  
  * `withinBoundingBox`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether the start of the `Path`
is within the bounding box of `referenceGeometry`, or `false` if
`referenceGeometry` is empty  
  
canBePathDistanceInformation (value) predicate

Typecheck for `PathDistanceInformation`

defaultPathDistanceInformation () returns PathDistanceInformation

Returns a PathDistanceInformation with `distance` set to infinity and
`withinBoundingBox` set to false

reverse (path is Path) returns Path

Reverse the direction of a `Path`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`path` | `Path`| the `Path` to reverse.   
  
constructPath (context is Context, edgesQuery is Query) returns Path

Construct a `Path` from a `Query` of edges, picking the starting point of the
path based on query evaluation order for `edgesQuery`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`edgesQuery` | `Query`| A `Query` of edges to form into a `Path`. The edges are ordered with query evaluation order, so a `qUnion` should be used to ensure a stable ordering.   
  
constructPath (context is Context, edgesQuery is Query, options is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Construct a `Path` from a `Query` of edges, optionally picking the starting
point as the closest viable starting point to the supplied `referenceGeometry`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`edgesQuery` | `Query`| A `Query` of edges to form into a `Path`.   
`options` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `referenceGeometry`

| | _Optional_ A geometry `Query` to determine the start of the `Path`. If unspecified, (or the query is empty) the starting point of the path will be based on query evaluation order for `edgesQuery`.   
  
  * `tolerance`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Optional_ Tolerance with length units indicating how
close endpoints need to be to be considered part of the same path. Default is
`1e-8 * meter` EXAMPLE

> `1e-5 * meter`  
  
Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `path`

| `Path`| The resulting constructed `Path`  
  
  * `pathDistanceInformation`

| `PathDistanceInformation`| A map containing the distance from the `Path`
start point to the center of the bounding box of `referenceGeometry` and
whether the `Path` start point falls inside that bounding box.  
  
evPathLength (context is Context, path is Path) returns ValueWithUnits

Return type| Description  
---|---  
`ValueWithUnits`| The total length of the `Path`.  
  
evPathTangentLines (context is Context, path is Path, parameters is
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Return tangent lines to a `Path` using arc length parameterization.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`path` | `Path`| The `Path` to use.   
`parameters` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of numbers in the range 0..1 indicating where along the `Path` to evaluate tangents.  
Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `tangentLines`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| The tangent `Line`s corresponding to
each parameter  
  
  * `edgeIndices`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| The indices of the edges in the
`Path` corresponding to each parameter  
  
evPathTangentLines (context is Context, path is Path, parameters is
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), referenceGeometry) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Return tangent lines to a `Path` using arc length parameterization. By
default, the 0 parameter of the `Path` will be the start of the `Path`. If
evaluating a closed path, providing reference geometry will alter the 0
parameter to be the closest point on the `Path` to the reference geometry.
Providing reference geometry for a non-closed `Path` will not change the
parameterization of the `Path`

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`path` | `Path`| The `Path` to use.   
`parameters` | `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of numbers in the range 0..1 indicating where along the `Path` to evaluate tangents.   
`referenceGeometry` | | A geometry `Query` to determine the 0 parameter of the `Path`, or `undefined`. If an empty `Query` or `undefined` is specified, the tangents will be evaluated starting at the beginning of the path.  
Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `tangentLines`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| The tangent `Line`s corresponding to
each parameter  
  
  * `edgeIndices`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| The indices of the edges in the
`Path` corresponding to each parameter  
  
  * `pathDistanceInformation`

| `PathDistanceInformation`| A map containing the distance from the remapped 0
parameter to the center of the bounding box of `referenceGeometry` and whether
the remapped 0 parameter falls inside that bounding box. Only valid if the
path is closed.  
  
getPathEndVertices (context is Context, path is Path) returns Query

Return query to end vertices of path if open or `qNothing` if closed.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`path` | `Path`| The `Path` to use.  
  
## patternCommon

PatternType enum

The type of pattern.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`PART` | Creates copies of bodies.   
`FEATURE` | Calls a feature function multiple times, first informing the `context` of the transform to be applied.   
`FACE` | Creates copies of faces and attempts to merge them with existing bodies.   
  
MirrorType enum

The type of mirror.

See also

`PatternType`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`PART` |   
`FEATURE` |   
`FACE` |   
  
## patternUtils

applyPattern (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), remainingTransform is Transform)

Applies the body, face, or feature pattern, given just transforms and instance
names

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `patternType`

| `PatternType`|  
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`|  _Required if`patternType` is not `FEATURE`_The faces or parts to
pattern.  
  
  * `instanceFunction`

| `FeatureList`|  _Required if`patternType` is `FEATURE`_The features to
pattern.  
  
  * `transforms`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An `array` of `Transform`s in which
to place new instances.  
  
  * `instanceNames`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An `array` of the same size as
`transforms` with a `string` for each transform, used in later features to
identify the entities created.  
  
## properties

Properties include name, appearance, material, and part number (see
`PropertyType`). They can be set in FeatureScript, but not read.

setProperty (context is Context, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Sets a property on a set of bodies and/or faces. The allowed properties are
listed in `PropertyType`. Only `APPEARANCE` and `NAME` properties are
supported for faces.

Note: Any properties set in this way will be overridden if they are set
directly in the Part Studio (via "Rename", "Set appearance", or the properties
dialog). In that case the property value provided in FeatureScript will become
shadowed. For example, if a part number is set in a custom feature based on
the configuration, manually editing the part number from the properties dialog
will override the custom feature's part number for all configurations.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| The bodies and/or faces to apply the property to.  
  
  * `propertyType`

| `PropertyType`| The property to set.  EXAMPLE

> `PropertyType.APPEARANCE` to change the part appearance.  
  
  * `customPropertyId`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`|  _Required if`propertyType` is
`CUSTOM`_The id of the custom property. The property id is available from your
[company's custom properties
page](https://cad.onshape.com/help/index.htm#cshid=company_properties). Note
that this call performs no checks as to whether the custom property value is
valid, so invalid property values may be recorded.  
  
  * `value`

| | A `Color` if the `propertyType` is `APPEARANCE`, a `Material` if it is `MATERIAL`, a boolean if it is `EXCLUDE_FROM_BOM`, a value with mass units if it is `MASS_OVERRIDE`, and a string otherwise. The value should be a string for a `CUSTOM` property even if the property is of a non-string type.  EXAMPLE

> `color(1, 0, 0)` to make the part red.  
  
getProperty (context is Context, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

NOTE: This function cannot be called inside custom features. It can only be
called from [table functions](/FsDoc/tables.html), [editing
logic](/FsDoc/uispec.html#editing-logic-function), and [manipulator change
functions](/FsDoc/uispec.html#manipulator-change-function). Getting properties
in custom features is not possible, since features are regenerated before any
user-set properties are applied.

Returns the value of a property of a single body, which can be either an
Onshape property (allowed properties listed on PropertyType) or a custom
property defined in company settings.

The returned value's type will correspond to the property type: A `Color` if
the `propertyType` is `APPEARANCE`, a `Material` if it is `MATERIAL`, a
boolean if it is `EXCLUDE_FROM_BOM`, and a string otherwise. `CUSTOM`
property's returned value will always be a string, even if the custom property
is of a non-string type.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entity`

| `Query`| A single body the property applies to.  
  
  * `propertyType`

| `PropertyType`| The property to get.  EXAMPLE

> `PropertyType.NAME` to get the body's name  
  
  * `customPropertyId`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`|  _Required if`propertyType` is
`CUSTOM`_The id of the custom property. The property id is available from your
[company's custom properties
page](https://cad.onshape.com/help/index.htm#cshid=company_properties).  
  
Color type

Represents a color as red, green, blue, and alpha transparency components,
each between 0 and 1 (inclusive).

canBeColor (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Color`

color (red is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), green is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), blue is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), alpha is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns Color

Create a `Color` from RGBA values, each between 0 and 1 (inclusive)

color (red is [number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), green is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), blue is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns Color

Create an opaque `Color` from RGB values, each between 0 and 1 (inclusive)

Material type

Represents a material.

canBeMaterial (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Material`

material (name is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), density is
ValueWithUnits)

Constructs a material with a name and a density.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`name` | `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| The displayed name of the material.   
`density` | `ValueWithUnits`| EXAMPLE

> `19.3 * gram / centimeter ^ 3`  
  
## sheetMetalFormedLibraryValidation

validate (context is Context) returns LibraryValidationProblems

Validates that a part studio can be part of a sheet metal form library

## string

Pretty printing and toString methods

toString (value) returns [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

Return a string representation of any value.

Overloads of this method are found for many standard and custom types in this
and other modules. When overloaded, the `toString` method will be called
inside `print` and `println`, allowing users to change how custom types are
printed.

toString (value is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

toString (value is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

toString (value is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

print (value)

Print a message to the FeatureScript notices pane.

This has no effect on model state or rendering.

println (value)

Print a message to the FeatureScript notices pane, followed by a newline.

This has no effect on model state or rendering.

println ()

Print a newline to the FeatureScript notices pane.

splitIntoCharacters (s is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Split a string into an array of characters, each represented as a string.

parseJson (s is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))

Parse a JSON string into either a map or array. Null values in the JSON are
returned as `undefined`. Throws if the string is not well-formed JSON.

Return type| Description  
---|---  
| A map or an array corresponding to the JSON value.  
  
REGEX_NUMBER const

Matches a number in the string, with or without decimals or exponents.

REGEX_NUMBER_CAPTURE const

Matches a number in the string, with or without decimals or exponents and
captures it.

addCustomNumberMatching (regExp is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))
returns [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

Extends regular expression syntax by adding \f to indicate a complete number

match (s is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), regExp is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Test if `s` matches `regExp` in its entirety.

Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `hasMatch`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| `true` if `regExp` matches `s`  
  
  * `captures`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| The first element is always the
input string `s`. The following elements are a list of all captured groups.  
  
replace (s is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), regExp is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), replacement is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

Returns a copy of `s` with every match of `regExp` replaced with the string
`replacement`.

EXAMPLE

> `replace("a~~aa~a", "a.", "X")` returns `X~X~a`

stringToNumber (s is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)

Convert a number in string form, into a FS number. Note that this function
will not accept trailing non numeric text, the entire string must be a single
valid number.

EXAMPLE

> `stringToNumber("1")` returns the number `1`

EXAMPLE

> `stringToNumber("1.0")` returns the number `1`

EXAMPLE

> `stringToNumber("1e2")` returns the number `100`

length (s is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)

Return the number of characters in a string.

substring (s is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), startIndex is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

Return a substring of a string starting at the specified start index.

EXAMPLE

> `substring("refactoring", 7)` returns `"ring"`

substring (s is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), startIndex is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number), endIndex is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

Return a substring of a string starting at the specified start index and
ending at the specified end index.

EXAMPLE

> `substring("refactoring", 2, 6)` returns `"fact"`

startsWith (s is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), prefix is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Return whether a string starts with the specified prefix.

endsWith (s is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), suffix is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Return whether a string ends with the specified suffix.

splitByRegexp (s is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), separatorRegexp is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Split a string into parts based on a regular expression separator.

EXAMPLE

> `splitByRegexp("this, truly, is a test.", "[,. ]+")` returns `[ "this" ,
> "truly" , "is" , "a" , "test" ]`

EXAMPLE

> `splitByRegexp("fooooobazzoo", "oo")` returns `[ "f" , "" , "obazz" ]`

EXAMPLE

> `splitByRegex("foo", "")` returns `[ "" , "" , "" , "" ]`

indexOf (s is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), substr is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)

Return the index of a substring in a string, or -1 if the substring is not
found.

indexOf (s is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), substr is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), startIndex is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)

Return the index of a substring in a string starting the search at a specified
start index, or -1 if the substring is not found.

indexOfRegexp (s is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), regexp is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)

Return the first index of a regular expression match in a string, or -1 if not
found.

indexOfRegexp (s is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), regexp is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), startIndex is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)

Return the first index of a regular expression match in a string starting at
the specified start index, or -1 if not found.

repeatString (s is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), count is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

Return a string made by repeating the first argument a specified number of
times. For example: repeatString("foo", 5) returns "foofoofoofoofoo".

isUndefinedOrEmptyString (val) predicate

Is undefined or empty string.

join (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), separator is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

Concatenates all elements in an array into a string, delimited by a separator
string.

join (arr is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

Concatenates all elements in an array into a string.

## tabReferences

PartStudioData type

The value of a Part Studio reference parameter, specifying user-selected parts
or other bodies from another Part Studio. The bodies can be added to the
current context using an [Instantiator](/FsDoc/library.html#module-
instantiator).

Full documentation and examples uses can be found
[here](/FsDoc/imports.html#part-studio).

See also

`addInstance(Instantiator, PartStudioData, map)`

Value| Type| Description | `PartStudioData` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `buildFunction`

| `BuildFunction`| A function with one argument (a configuration map) which
returns a new context containing all parts of the referenced Part Studio.  
  
  * `configuration`

| `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| The user-input values for the
configuration of the selected Part Studio. The keys of this map are the
configuration inputs' [FeatureScript
ids](https://forum.onshape.com/discussion/9001/configurations-update-edit-
featurescript-ids), and the map can be passed (either as-is or modified) into
the buildFunction above, or to `addInstance`.  
  
  * `partQuery`

| `Query`| A query for the user-selected parts in the other context.  
  
  * `configurationData`

| `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| This maps configuration input
FeatureScript ids to maps that have information about the configuration
inputs. Each of these maps has a `defaultValue` field with the default value
of the configuration input. Enum configuration inputs (configuration lists)
also have an `options` field with the value of the [Enum](/FsDoc/type-
tags.html#enumerations).  
  
ImageData type

The value of an image reference parameter, which can be placed in a Part
Studio using `skImage`. Outside of use with skImage, color data for individual
pixels is not accessable from FeatureScript.

Full documentation and example uses can be found
[here](/FsDoc/imports.html#image).

Value| Type| Description | `ImageData` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `imageWidth`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| Width of the image, in pixels  
  
  * `imageHeight`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| Height of the image, in pixels  
  
  * `mediaType`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| MIME type of the uploaded image  
  
TableData type

The value of a CSV reference parameter, containing the file's tabular data as
an array of arrays.

Full documentation and example uses can be found
[here](/FsDoc/imports.html#csv).

Value| Type| Description | `TableData` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `csvData`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| If the CSV contains a single rows,
this value is a single array of strings or numbers. If the value contains
multiple rows, this value is an array of arrays of strings or numbers.
Individual cell values can be accessed by indexing into these arrays (`var
row1column2 = definition.myTable.csvData[0][1]`), or by iterating through them
(`for (var row in definition.myTable.csvData) { println(row); }`).  
  
JSONData type

The value of a JSON reference parameter, containing the file's data.

Value| Type| Description | `JSONData` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `jsonData`

| | A value that represents the top-level entity of the imported JSON file: this is a map if the JSON entity is an object, an array if the JSON entity is an array, and likewise for the standard JSON types. Note that JSON `null` values are imported as `undefined`.   
  
TextData type

The value of a Text reference parameter, containing the file's data.

Value| Type| Description | `TextData` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `textData`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| A value that represents the top-
level entity of the imported text file.  
  
CADImportData type

The value of a CAD import reference parameter, which can be used by a Part
Studio import feature. The data is not accessible outside of an import
operation.

Full documentation and example can be found [here](/FsDoc/imports.html#cad-
import).

## table

defineTable (table is [function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)) returns
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)

This function takes a table generation function and wraps it to define a
table. It is analogous to `defineFeature`, except for tables. A typical usage
is something like:

    
    
    annotation { "Table Type Name" : "MyTable" } // This annotation is required for Onshape to recognize myTable as a table.
    export const myTable = defineTable(function(context is Context, definition is map) returns Table
        precondition
        {
            ... // Specify the parameters that this table takes, if any
        }
        {
            ... // Compute and return the table, using the context and the parameters
        });
    

For more information on writing tables, see `FeatureScript Tables` (TODO) in
the language guide.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`table` | `[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)`| A function that takes a `context` and a `definition` and returns a `Table` or a `TableArray`  
  
Table type

A `Table` represents a read-only table, consisting of rows, columns, and
associated entities. Custom tables return a `Table` or an array of `Table`s
(tagged as a `TableArray`) as their output.

The user-visible strings in a table, like column headings and cell values can
be specified as either a string, a number, a `ValueWithUnits` or a
`TemplateString`. These are referred to as "table values" and checked by the
`isTableValue` predicate.

Value| Type| Description | `Table` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `title`

| | A table value specifying the title of the table   
  
  * `columnDefinitions`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of `TableColumnDefinition`s
specifying the columns.  
  
  * `rows`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of `TableRow`s specifying
the data in the table.  
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ An optional `Query` specifying the entities associated
with the entire table.  
  
canBeTable (value) predicate

Typecheck for `Table`

table (title, columnDefinitions is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array), rows
is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns Table

Constructs a `Table` given a title, column definitions, and rows

TableColumnDefinition type

A `TableColumnDefinition` represents a column in a `Table`.

Value| Type| Description | `TableColumnDefinition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `id`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| The internal id of the column.
Referenced in `TableRow`s to specify cell values.  
  
  * `name`

| | A table value specifying the column name, which is displayed as the heading   
  
  * `alignment`

| `TableTextAlignment`|  _Optional_ How text is aligned in the column. Default
is `LEFT`.  
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ An optional `Query` specifying the entities associated
with the column.  
  
canBeTableColumnDefinition (value) predicate

Typecheck for `TableColumnDefinition`

tableColumnDefinition (id is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), name)
returns TableColumnDefinition

Constructs a `TableColumnDefinition` given an id and a name.

tableColumnDefinition (id is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), name,
alignment is TableTextAlignment) returns TableColumnDefinition

Constructs a `TableColumnDefinition` given an id, a name, and a
`TableTextAlignment` controlling how its cell content is aligned.

tableColumnDefinition (id is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), name,
entities is Query) returns TableColumnDefinition

Constructs a `TableColumnDefinition` given an id, a name, and entities to
cross-highlight when mousing over the column.

TableRow type

A `TableRow` represents a row in a table, including the cells in that row.

Value| Type| Description | `TableRow` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `columnIdToCell`

| `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| The cell values. Keys are column ids, as
specified in the table column definitions. Values are table values or
`TableCellError`s.  
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ An optional `Query` specifying the entities associated
with the row.  
  
canBeTableRow (value) predicate

Typecheck for `TableRow`

tableRow (columnIdToCell is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns TableRow

Constructs a `TableRow` given the cell values.

tableRow (columnIdToCell is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), entities is
Query) returns TableRow

Constructs a `TableRow` given the cell values and entities.

isTableValue (value) predicate

Returns `true` if the input is a table value, that is a string, a number, a
`ValueWithUnits` or a `TemplateString`.

TableArray type

Represents an array of `Table`s. One possible output of a table function, the
other being `Table`.

canBeTableArray (value) predicate

Typecheck for `TableArray`

tableArray (value is [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)) returns TableArray

Constructs a `TableArray` given an array.

TableCellError type

A `TableCellError` represents a table cell in an error state. Such a cell has
a displayed value as well as an error message that appears as a tooltip over
the cell.

Value| Type| Description | `TableCellError` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `value`

| | The displayed value, provided as a table value.   
  
  * `error`

| | The error message, provided as a table value.   
  
canBeTableCellError (value) predicate

Typecheck for `TableCellError`.

tableCellError (value, error) returns TableCellError

Constructs a `TableCellError` given a displayed value and an error message.

TableCellWithInfo type

A `TableCellWithInfo` represents a table cell with both a value and an info
message. Such a cell has a displayed value as well an info icon and a message
that appears as a tooltip over the info icon.

Value| Type| Description | `TableCellWithInfo` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `value`

| | The displayed value, provided as a table value.   
  
  * `info`

| | The info message, provided as a table value.   
  
canBeTableCellWithInfo (value) predicate

Typecheck for `TableCellWithInfo`.

tableCellWithInfo (value, info) returns TableCellWithInfo

Constructs a `TableCellWithInfo` given a displayed value and an info message.

StringToleranceComponent type

Represents a component with an inline part followed by stacked upper and lower
components.

Value| Type| Description | `StringToleranceComponent` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `value`

| | A value to be displayed as a regular row of text.   
  
  * `upper`

| | The upper component of the tolerance.   
  
  * `lower`

| | The lower component of the tolerance.   
  
stringToleranceComponent (value is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
StringToleranceComponent

Constructor for StringToleranceComponent

StringWithTolerances type

Represents a compound string which may contain toleranced components.

Value| Type| Description | `StringWithTolerances` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `components`

| | An array of either strings, TemplateStrings, or StringToleranceComponents.   
  
stringWithTolerances (value is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Constructor for StringWithTolerances

toString (value is StringToleranceComponent) returns
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

toString (value is StringWithTolerances) returns
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

concatenateStringsWithTolerances (a is StringWithTolerances, b is
StringWithTolerances) returns StringWithTolerances

Concantenates two `StringWithTolerances` values together.

appendToleranceComponent (result is StringWithTolerances, component) returns
StringWithTolerances

Appends either a `string`, a `TemplateString`, or a `StringToleranceComponent`
to an existing `StringWithTolerances`.

createStringWithTolerances (component) returns StringWithTolerances

Creates a `StringWithTolerances` wrapping the specified component.

tolerancedValueToString (prefix is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string),
value is ValueWithUnits, tolerance) returns StringWithTolerances

Converts a ValueWithUnits and an associated ToleranceInfo into a
StringWithTolerances.

allSolidsAndClosedComposites (context is Context) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns an array of maps for all modifiable non-mesh solids and closed
composites. Each map has a key `part`, which maps to a query for the solid or
composite and `bodies`, which maps to either the solid or all constituent
bodies. This is useful for iterating over what a user may consider to be
"individual parts" in a context.

EXAMPLE

>
>     for (var partAndBodies in allSolidsAndClosedComposites(context))
>     {
>         var name = getProperty(context, { "entity" : partAndBodies.part,
> "propertyType" : PropertyType.NAME } );
>         var volume = evVolume(context, { "entities" : partAndBodies.bodies
> });
>     }
>  

toString (table is Table) returns [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

Tries to convert a table to string form. Because the actual table output
depends on user-chosen units and precision, the result of this function may
not match it.

toString (value is TemplateString) returns
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

## templatestring

ValueWithUnitsAndPrecision type

Represents a `ValueWithUnits` which, when put in a `TemplateString` will
render with a specified precision override.

canBeValueWithUnitsAndPrecision (value) predicate

Typecheck for `ValueWithUnitsAndPrecision`

valueWithUnitsAndPrecision (value is ValueWithUnits, precision is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns ValueWithUnitsAndPrecision

Constructs a `ValueWithUnitsAndPrecision` given the value and precision.

TemplateString type

A `TemplateString` represents a value that will be formatted by template
substitution. It is useful when, for instance, a table cell needs to display
some text in combination with a length formatted in the document length units.

The `TemplateString` is a map with a string field `template`. Other fields
represent parameters to substitute and may be strings, numbers or
`ValueWithUnits`.

Formatting happens as follows: Text in `template` that does not contain the
number sign `#` is unchanged. `#identifier` (where `identifier` is a valid
FeatureScript identifier) causes a substitution with the result of looking up
`identifier` in the map. `##` is changed to `#`. `# ` (The number sign
followed by a space) is removed, which can be useful for separating a
substitution from text.

EXAMPLE

> `{ 'template' : 'Length = #len', 'len' : foot }` gets formatted as `Length =
> 12 in` if document units are inches.

EXAMPLE

> `{ 'template' : '###var# bar', 'var' : 'foo' }` get formatted as `#foobar`.

canBeTemplateString (value) predicate

Typecheck for `TemplateString`.

templateString (value is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
TemplateString

Constructor for `TemplateString`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`value` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| A map with a "template" field and any number of other fields, which may be referenced in the template string as e.g. `#myValue`. Used in FeatureScript tables. See `TemplateString` docs for more info.  EXAMPLE

> `{ "template" : "Value of #myValue", "myValue" : 42 }`  
  
## tolerance

ToleranceType enum

Defines the tolerance type of a hole feature's parameter.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`NONE` | Defines no tolerance.   
`SYMMETRICAL` | Defines a tolerance type where the allowed tolerance is a symmetrical deviation.   
`DEVIATION` | Defines a tolerance type where the allowed tolerance is an asymmetrical deviation.   
`LIMITS` | Defines a tolerance type where the allowed tolerance has defined upper and lower limits.   
`MIN` | Defines a tolerance type where the parameter's value is considered the minimum allowed value.   
`MAX` | Defines a tolerance type where the parameter's value is considered the maximum allowed value.   
`FIT` |   
`FIT_WITH_TOLERANCE` |   
`FIT_TOLERANCE_ONLY` |   
  
ToleranceTypeExtended enum

Defines the tolerance type of a hole feature's parameter.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`NONE` | Defines no tolerance.   
`SYMMETRICAL` | Defines a tolerance type where the allowed tolerance is a symmetrical deviation.   
`DEVIATION` | Defines a tolerance type where the allowed tolerance is an asymmetrical deviation.   
`LIMITS` | Defines a tolerance type where the allowed tolerance has defined upper and lower limits.   
`MIN` | Defines a tolerance type where the parameter's value is considered the minimum allowed value.   
`MAX` | Defines a tolerance type where the parameter's value is considered the maximum allowed value.   
`FIT` | Defines a tolerance type where the upper and lower limits are defined by the specified fit tolerance class.   
`FIT_WITH_TOLERANCE` | Defines a tolerance type where the upper and lower limits are defined by the specified fit tolerance class.   
`FIT_TOLERANCE_ONLY` | Defines a tolerance type where the upper and lower limits are defined by the specified fit tolerance class.   
  
ToleranceInfo type

Stores tolerance-related info for a specific field in a feature. This info
includes an optional precision override, a tolerance type, and, if applicable,
an upper and lower bound associated with that tolerance type.

canBeToleranceInfo (val) predicate

Type checking predicate for the `ToleranceInfo` type.

toleranceInfo (info is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Constructor for the ToleranceInfo type.

ToleranceFitInfo type

Stores fit tolerance-related info for a specific field in a feature.

canBeToleranceFitInfo (val) predicate

Type checking predicate for the `ToleranceFitInfo` type.

toleranceFitInfo (info is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Constructor for the ToleranceFitInfo type.

PrecisionType enum

Defines the precision of a tolerant quantity.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`DEFAULT` |   
`ONES` | Display precision up to '1'.   
`TENTHS` | Display precision up to '0.1'.   
`HUNDREDTHS` | Display precision up to '0.01'.   
`THOUSANDTHS` | Display precision up to '0.001'.   
`TEN_THOUSANDTHS` | Display precision up to '0.0001'.   
`HUNDRED_THOUSANDTHS` | Display precision up to '0.00001'.   
`MILLIONTHS` | Display precision up to '0.000001'.   
  
defineLengthTolerance (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), field
is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), parentParameterName is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) predicate

Creates a parameter group containing length tolerance controls for the
specified field in the specified definition.

defineLengthToleranceExtended (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map),
field is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), parentParameterName is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) predicate

Creates a parameter group containing length fit tolerance controls for the
specified field in the specified definition.

defineAngleTolerance (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), field is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), parentParameterName is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) predicate

Creates a parameter group containing angle tolerance controls for the
specified field in the specified definition.

getToleranceInfo (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), field is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns ToleranceInfo

Extracts the `ToleranceInfo` associated with a given field in the given
feature definition. The `ToleranceInfo` is gathered from parameters which are
created using either the `defineLengthTolerance` or `defineAngleTolerance`
predicates.

updateFitToleranceFields (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), field is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Updates the fit tolerance field information associated with a specified field
in the given feature definition. The tolerance information is extracted from
parameters created using the `defineLengthToleranceExtended` predicates.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`context` | `Context`| The target context.   
`id` | `Id`| Identifier of the feature.   
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| The feature definition from which to extract and update tolerance information.   
`field` | `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| The field name for which to update tolerance information.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| The updated feature definition with
updated tolerance information.  
  
isToleranceSet (tolerance is ToleranceInfo) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Determines whether or not a tolerance is set in a given `ToleranceInfo`. A
tolerance is considered to be "set" if either its tolerance type is set to a
value other than `NONE`, or if it has a precision override value set.

isToleranceInfoOrUndefined (val) predicate

Determines if a given value is either a `ToleranceInfo` or `undefined`.

getToleranceBounds (nominal is ValueWithUnits, tolerance is ToleranceInfo,
options is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Produces an array containing the upper and lower bounds of a `ValueWithUnits`
given a specified `ToleranceInfo` as well as a map of options.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`nominal` | `ValueWithUnits`| the nominal value   
`tolerance` | `ToleranceInfo`| the tolerance info for the given value   
`options` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `minimum`

| `ValueWithUnits`| the upper bound if the tolerance type is maximum  
  
  * `maximun`

| `ValueWithUnits`| the lower bound if the tolerance type is minimum  
  
  * `useDrawingLimitsFix`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| if false, uses the old bounds
calculation of \\[lowerLim, upperLim\\]  
  
getToleranceBounds (nominal is ValueWithUnits, tolerance, minimum is
ValueWithUnits, maximum is ValueWithUnits) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Produces an array containing the upper and lower bounds of a `ValueWithUnits`
given a specified `ToleranceInfo`.

## topologyUtils

edgeIsTwoSided (context is Context, edge is Query) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Returns true if `edge` has two adjacent faces, false if `edge` is a laminar or
wire edge.

isClosed (context is Context, edge is Query) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Returns true if `edge` is closed, false if `edge` is open

dissolveWires (edgesAndWires is Query) returns Query

Returns the union of any edges from the input query and all the edges of any
body from the input query

followWireEdgesToLaminarSource (context is Context, query is Query) returns
Query

If the query contains wire edges then this function will track the wire edges
back through creation history to find laminar edges that the edge was copied
from (or will return the original edge if none).

extractDirection (context is Context, entity is Query)

Extract a direction from an axis or a plane. Useful for processing query
parameters with the
[QueryFilterCompound.ALLOWS_DIRECTION](/FsDoc/library.html#QueryFilterCompound)
filter.

Return type| Description  
---|---  
| a 3D unit `Vector` if a direction can be extracted, otherwise `undefined`.  
  
connectedComponents (context is Context, entities is Query, adjacencyType is
AdjacencyType) returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Find connected components in the topological graph of provided entities. Each
component is a group of topologically connected entities, and each component
is disjoint with (does not connect topologically with) any other component.
Connectivity is tested using `qAdjacent` with the specified `adjacencyType`.

Returns an array of components. Each component is an array of individual
queries. The queries in any component will respect the query evaluation order
of the supplied `entities` `Query`. The components themselves will also be
ordered by query evaluation order, sorted by the first entity in each
component.

Unlike `constructPaths`, this function operates on topological connections
(underlying connections by a vertex or edge). Distinct bodies are not
topologically connected, so even if two entities on distinct bodies are
geometrically related by having a coincident vertex or edge, the entities
connected to these coincident vertices or edges will fall into different
components. Sketch edges are each represented as a distinct wire body, and are
not topologically connected, so this method cannot be used for them.

groupEntitiesByBody (context is Context, entities is Query) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Group `entities` by their owner body.

Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| a map from the transient query for an
individual body to an array of transient queries for the individual entities
which belong to that body.  
  
sweptAlong (context is Context, face is Query, direction is Vector) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Check whether a face is swept along a specified direction.

clusterBodies (context is Context, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Groups bodies into clusters of identical topology and identical geometry (up
to a relative tolerance), allowing arbitrary 3D rotations (but not
reflection).

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `bodies`

| `Query`| The bodies to cluster  
  
  * `relativeTolerance`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| A tolerance, expressed as a
decimal value, to compare bodies with.  EXAMPLE

> `0.01` to cluster bodies that have a 1% similarity  
  
## valueBounds

Value bounds are used to define minimum, maximum, and default values for
numbers and values with units. These bounds are in the feature dialog UI for
parameters with the given bounds.

In standard usage, a parameter can be specified with e.g. angle bounds in a
feature precondition as follows:

    
    
    isAngle(definition.myAngle, ANGLE_360_BOUNDS);
    

To change the bounds and defaults on the above declaration, a user may replace
ANGLE_360_BOUNDS with another `AngleBoundSpec` in this module, or define their
own. For instance, the following code creates a parameter whose default value
is 45 degrees (if the user's settings have degrees as the default) or 1 radian
(if the user's settings have radians as the default).

    
    
    const MY_BOUNDS =
    {
        (degree) : [0, 45, 360],
        (radian) : 1
    } as AngleBoundSpec;
    ...
        isAngle(definition.myAngle, MY_BOUNDS);
    ...
    

isLength (value, boundSpec is LengthBoundSpec) predicate

True for a value with length units which conforms to the given bounds.

Used in feature preconditions to specify a length parameter.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`boundSpec` | `LengthBoundSpec`| Specifies a min, a max, and a default value. These values are possibly different in different units for the sake of round numbers. To specify a parameter with different default value or different limits, use a different or custom `LengthBoundSpec`.   
  
isAngle (value, boundSpec is AngleBoundSpec) predicate

True for a value with angle units which conforms to the given bounds.

Used in feature preconditions to specify an angle parameter.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`boundSpec` | `AngleBoundSpec`| Specifies a min, a max, and a default value. These values are possibly different in different units for the sake of round numbers. To specify a parameter with different default value or different limits, use a different or custom `AngleBoundSpec`.   
  
isInteger (value, boundSpec is IntegerBoundSpec) predicate

True for a `number` that is an integer and conforms to the given bounds.

Used in feature preconditions to specify an integer or count parameter.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`boundSpec` | `IntegerBoundSpec`| Specifies a min, a max, and a default value. These values are possibly different in different units for the sake of round numbers. To specify a parameter with different default value or different limits, use a different or custom `IntegerBoundSpec`.   
  
isReal (value, boundSpec is RealBoundSpec) predicate

True for a real number which conforms to the given bounds.

Used in feature preconditions to specify a unitless numeric parameter.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`boundSpec` | `RealBoundSpec`| Specifies a min, a max, and a default value. These values are possibly different in different units for the sake of round numbers. To specify a parameter with different default value or different limits, use a different or custom `RealBoundSpec`.   
  
LENGTH_BOUNDS const

A `LengthBoundSpec` for a positive or negative length.

NONNEGATIVE_LENGTH_BOUNDS const

A `LengthBoundSpec` for a length strictly greater than 0.

NONNEGATIVE_ZERO_INCLUSIVE_LENGTH_BOUNDS const

A `LengthBoundSpec` for a length greater than or equal to 0.

NONNEGATIVE_ZERO_DEFAULT_LENGTH_BOUNDS const

A `LengthBoundSpec` for a length greater than or equal to 0, with UI defaults
of 0.0 for all units.

NONPOSITIVE_ZERO_DEFAULT_LENGTH_BOUNDS const

A `LengthBoundSpec` for a length less than or equal to 0, with UI defaults of
0.0 for all units.

ZERO_DEFAULT_LENGTH_BOUNDS const

A `LengthBoundSpec` for a positive or negative length, with UI defaults of 0.0
for all units.

BLEND_BOUNDS const

A `LengthBoundSpec` for fillets and chamfers, with smaller defaults than
`NONNEGATIVE_LENGTH_BOUNDS` (`0.2 * inch`, etc.).

SHELL_OFFSET_BOUNDS const

A `LengthBoundSpec` for a shell or offset thickness, with smaller defaults
than `NONNEGATIVE_LENGTH_BOUNDS`. (`0.1 * inch`, etc.).

ZERO_INCLUSIVE_OFFSET_BOUNDS const

A `LengthBoundSpec` for an offset thickness, for a length greater than or
equal to 0, with defaults greater than
NONNEGATIVE_ZERO_INCLUSIVE_LENGTH_BOUNDS

ANGLE_360_BOUNDS const

An `AngleBoundSpec` for an angle between 0 and 360 degrees, defaulting to 30
degrees.

ANGLE_360_REVERSE_DEFAULT_BOUNDS const

An `AngleBoundSpec` for an angle between 0 and 360 degrees, defaulting to 330
degrees.

ANGLE_360_ZERO_DEFAULT_BOUNDS const

An `AngleBoundSpec` for an angle between 0 and 360 degrees, defaulting to 0
degrees.

ANGLE_360_FULL_DEFAULT_BOUNDS const

An `AngleBoundSpec` for an angle between 0 and 360 degrees, defaulting to 360
degrees.

ANGLE_360_90_DEFAULT_BOUNDS const

An `AngleBoundSpec` for an angle between 0 and 360 degrees, defaulting to 90
degrees.

ANGLE_STRICT_180_BOUNDS const

An `AngleBoundSpec` for an angle strictly less than 180 degrees.

ANGLE_STRICT_90_BOUNDS const

An `AngleBoundSpec` for an angle strictly less than 90 degrees.

ANGLE_180_MINUS_180_BOUNDS const

An `AngleBoundSpec` for an angle between -180 and 180 degrees, defaulting to 0
degrees.

NONPOSITIVE_ZERO_DEFAULT_ANGLE_BOUNDS const

An`AngleBoundSpec` for an angle less than or equal to 0, with UI defaults of
0.0 for all units.

NONNEGATIVE_ZERO_DEFAULT_ANGLE_BOUNDS const

An `AngleBoundSpec` for an angle greater than or equal to 0, with UI defaults
of 0.0 for all units.

POSITIVE_COUNT_BOUNDS const

An `IntegerBoundSpec` for an integer strictly greater than zero, defaulting to
2.

POSITIVE_REAL_BOUNDS const

A `RealBoundSpec` for a number greater than or equal to zero, defaulting to 1.

SCALE_BOUNDS const

A `RealBoundSpec` for the positive or negative scale factor on a transform,
defaulting to `1`.

LengthBoundSpec type

A spec to be used with the `isLength` predicate to define allowable lengths
and customize UI behaviors for feature dialog parameters that take in a
length.

A typical declaration looks like:

    
    
    const MY_LENGTH_BOUNDS =
    {
        (meter)      : [-500, 0.0025, 500],
        (centimeter) : .25,
        (millimeter) : 2.50,
        (inch)       : 0.1,
        (foot)       : 0.01,
        (yard)       : 0.0025
    } as LengthBoundSpec;
    

The values for `(meter)`, `(inch)`, etc. define the bounds and default values
for a feature parameter defined with `MY_LENGTH_BOUNDS`. The default values
will be different for users who have set different default units.

Specifically, the first unit listed specified defines the minimum value,
default value, and the maximum value (in terms of that unit) and the
subsequent units define default values for those units, when a user with those
default units first opens the dialog. The default value for a unit that is not
listed is the default value of the first unit so `{ (inch) : [0, 1, 1e4] } as
LengthBoundSpec` will give a default of `2.54 cm` in a Part Studio with
centimeter units

canBeLengthBoundSpec (value) predicate

Typecheck for LengthBoundSpec

AngleBoundSpec type

A spec to be used with the `isAngle` predicate to define allowable angles and
customize UI behaviors for feature dialog parameters that take in an angle.

A typical declaration looks like:

    
    
    const ANGLE_360_BOUNDS =
    {
        (degree) : [0, 30, 360],
        (radian) : 1
    } as AngleBoundSpec;
    

For more information on what the various fields signify, see
`LengthBoundSpec`.

canBeAngleBoundSpec (value) predicate

Typecheck for AngleBoundSpec

IntegerBoundSpec type

A spec to be used with the `isInteger` predicate to define allowable numbers
and customize UI behaviors for feature dialog parameters that take in a
number.

A typical declaration looks like:

    
    
    const POSITIVE_COUNT_BOUNDS =
    {
        (unitless) : [1, 2, 1e5]
    } as IntegerBoundSpec;
    

For more information on what the various fields signify, see
`LengthBoundSpec`.

canBeIntegerBoundSpec (value) predicate

Typecheck for IntegerBoundSpec

RealBoundSpec type

A spec to be used with the `isReal` predicate to define allowable real numbers
and customize UI behaviors for feature dialog parameters that take in a real
number.

A typical declaration looks like:

    
    
    const POSITIVE_REAL_BOUNDS =
    {
        (unitless) : [0, 1, 1e5]
    } as RealBoundSpec;
    

For more information on what the various fields signify, see
`LengthBoundSpec`.

canBeRealBoundSpec (value) predicate

Typecheck for RealBoundSpec

## wrapSurface

WrapSurface type

Represents the `source` or `destination` surface for `opWrap`. Exactly one of
`face`, `plane`, `cylinder`, or `cone` must be defined.

(Formerly `RollSurface`)

Value| Type| Description | `WrapSurface` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `face`

| `Query`| The face entity defining this `WrapSurface`.  
  
  * `plane`

| `Plane`| The plane geometry defining this `WrapSurface`.  
  
  * `cylinder`

| `Cylinder`| The cylinder geometry defining this `WrapSurface`.  
  
  * `cone`

| `Cone`| The cone geometry defining this `WrapSurface`.  
  
  * `anchorPoint`

| `Vector`| The anchor point of the `WrapSurface`, used to align the `source`
and `destination` `WrapSurface`s for `opWrap`. Must lie on the `WrapSurface`.
If this condition is not met, `opWrap` will fail.  
  
  * `anchorDirection`

| `Vector`| The anchor direction of the `WrapSurface`, used to align the
`source` and `destination` `WrapSurface`s for `opWrap`. Must lie on the
tangent plane of the `WrapSurface` at the `anchorPoint`. If this condition is
not met, `opWrap` will fail.  
  
isWrapPlane (context is Context, val is WrapSurface) predicate

Returns whether the given `WrapSurface` is a plane.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`val` | `WrapSurface`| The `WrapSurface` to check.   
  
isWrapCylinder (context is Context, val is WrapSurface) predicate

Returns whether the given `WrapSurface` is a cylinder.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`val` | `WrapSurface`| The `WrapSurface` to check.   
  
isWrapCone (context is Context, val is WrapSurface) predicate

Returns whether the given `WrapSurface` is a cone.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`val` | `WrapSurface`| The `WrapSurface` to check.   
  
makeWrapSurface (context is Context, face is Query) returns WrapSurface

Make a `WrapSurface` for `opWrap` defined by a planar or cylindrical face.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`face` | `Query`| A face to use as the definition face for the `WrapSurface`. For a planar face: The plane `origin` will be used as the `anchorPoint` and the plane `x` direction will be used as the `anchorDirection`. For a cylindrical face: The point at which the cylinder's `coordSystem`'s positive `xAxis` intersects the cylinder will be used as the `anchorPoint`. The cylinder's `yAxis` will be used as the `anchorDirection`. See `WrapSurface` documentation for descriptions of `anchorPoint` and `anchorDirection`.   
  
makeWrapSurface (context is Context, face is Query, anchorPoint is Vector,
spin is ValueWithUnits) returns WrapSurface

Make a `WrapSurface` for `opWrap` defined by a planar, cylindrical or conical
face.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`face` | `Query`| A face to use as the definition face for the `WrapSurface`.   
`anchorPoint` | `Vector`| The anchor point of the `WrapSurface`. See `WrapSurface` documentation.   
`spin` | `ValueWithUnits`| For a planar face: Angle of a counter-clockwise spin to apply to the `plane`'s `x` axis about its positive `z` axis, which is then used as the `anchorDirection`. For a cylindrical face: Angle of a counter-clockwise spin to apply to the `cylinder`'s canonical `anchorDirection` at the given `anchorPoint` about the direction vector from the cylinder axis to the `anchorPoint`. The canonical `anchorDirection` at the given `anchorPoint` is defined as the "rightward" direction when looking at the cylinder in the direction from the `anchorPoint` to the cylinder axis with the cylinder's `zAxis` up. In other words: `cross(cylinder z axis, direction vector from cylinder axis to anchorPoint)`. This spun direction is then used as the `anchorDirection`. For a conical face: Angle of a counter-clockwise spin to apply to the `cone`'s canonical `anchorDirection` at the given `anchorPoint` about the normal at `anchorPoint`. The canonical `anchorDirection` at the given `anchorPoint` is defined as the "rightward" direction when looking at the cone from the normal. See `WrapSurface` documentation for a description of `anchorDirection`.   
  
makeWrapSurface (context is Context, face is Query, anchorPoint is Vector,
anchorDirection is Vector) returns WrapSurface

Make a `WrapSurface` for `opWrap` defined by a planar, cylindrical or conical
face.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`face` | `Query`| A face to use as the definition face for the `WrapSurface`.   
`anchorPoint` | `Vector`| The anchor point of the `WrapSurface`. See `WrapSurface` documentation.   
`anchorDirection` | `Vector`| The anchor direction of the `WrapSurface`. See `WrapSurface` documentation.   
  
makeWrapPlane (plane is Plane) returns WrapSurface

Make a `WrapSurface` for `opWrap` from a `Plane`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`plane` | `Plane`| The definition plane for the `WrapSurface`. The plane `origin` will be used as the `anchorPoint` and the plane `x` direction will be used as the `anchorDirection`. See `WrapSurface` documentation for descriptions of `anchorPoint` and `anchorDirection`.   
  
makeWrapPlane (plane is Plane, anchorPoint is Vector, spin is ValueWithUnits)
returns WrapSurface

Make a `WrapSurface` for `opWrap` from a `Plane`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`plane` | `Plane`| The definition plane for the `WrapSurface`.   
`anchorPoint` | `Vector`| The anchor point of the `WrapSurface`. See `WrapSurface` documentation.   
`spin` | `ValueWithUnits`| Angle of a counter-clockwise spin to apply to the `plane`'s `x` axis about its positive `z` axis, which is then used as the `anchorDirection`. See `WrapSurface` documentation for a description of `anchorDirection`.   
  
makeWrapPlane (plane is Plane, anchorPoint is Vector, anchorDirection is
Vector) returns WrapSurface

Make a `WrapSurface` for `opWrap` from a `Plane`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`plane` | `Plane`| The definition plane for the `WrapSurface`.   
`anchorPoint` | `Vector`| The anchor point of the `WrapSurface`. See `WrapSurface` documentation.   
`anchorDirection` | `Vector`| The anchor direction of the `WrapSurface`. See `WrapSurface` documentation.   
  
makeWrapPlane (context is Context, planarFace is Query, anchorPoint is Vector,
anchorDirection is Vector) returns WrapSurface

Make a `WrapSurface` for `opWrap` from a planar face.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`planarFace` | `Query`| A planar face to use as the definition plane for the `WrapSurface`.   
`anchorPoint` | `Vector`| The anchor point of the `WrapSurface`. See `WrapSurface` documentation.   
`anchorDirection` | `Vector`| The anchor direction of the `WrapSurface`. See `WrapSurface` documentation.   
  
flipWrapPlane (wrapPlane is WrapSurface) returns WrapSurface

Flip the normal direction of the `Plane` described by this `WrapSurface`. Do
not change the `anchorPoint` or `anchorDirection`.

makeWrapCylinder (cylinder is Cylinder) returns WrapSurface

Make a `WrapSurface` for `opWrap` from a `Cylinder`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`cylinder` | `Cylinder`| The definition cylinder for the `WrapSurface`. The point at which the cylinder's `coordSystem`'s positive `xAxis` intersects the cylinder will be used as the `anchorPoint`. The cylinder's `yAxis` will be used as the `anchorDirection`. See `WrapSurface` documentation for descriptions of `anchorPoint` and `anchorDirection`.   
  
makeWrapCylinder (cylinder is Cylinder, anchorPoint is Vector, spin is
ValueWithUnits) returns WrapSurface

Make a `WrapSurface` for `opWrap` from a `Cylinder`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`cylinder` | `Cylinder`| The definition cylinder for the `WrapSurface`.   
`anchorPoint` | `Vector`| The anchor point of the `WrapSurface`. See `WrapSurface` documentation.   
`spin` | `ValueWithUnits`| Angle of a counter-clockwise spin to apply to the `cylinder`'s canonical `anchorDirection` at the given `anchorPoint` about the direction vector from the cylinder axis to the `anchorPoint`. The canonical `anchorDirection` at the given `anchorPoint` is defined as the "rightward" direction when looking at the cylinder in the direction from the `anchorPoint` to the cylinder axis with the cylinder's `zAxis` up. In other words: `cross(cylinder z axis, direction vector from cylinder axis to anchorPoint)`. This spun direction is then used as the `anchorDirection`. See `WrapSurface` documentation for a description of `anchorDirection`.   
  
makeWrapCylinder (cylinder is Cylinder, anchorPoint is Vector, anchorDirection
is Vector) returns WrapSurface

Make a `WrapSurface` for `opWrap` from a `Cylinder`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`cylinder` | `Cylinder`| The definition cylinder for the `WrapSurface`.   
`anchorPoint` | `Vector`| The anchor point of the `WrapSurface`. See `WrapSurface` documentation.   
`anchorDirection` | `Vector`| The anchor direction of the `WrapSurface`. See `WrapSurface` documentation.   
  
makeWrapCylinder (context is Context, cylindricalFace is Query, anchorPoint is
Vector, anchorDirection is Vector) returns WrapSurface

Make a `WrapSurface` for `opWrap` from a cylindrical face.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`cylindricalFace` | `Query`| A cylindrical face to use as the definition cylinder for the `WrapSurface`.   
`anchorPoint` | `Vector`| The anchor point of the `WrapSurface`. See `WrapSurface` documentation.   
`anchorDirection` | `Vector`| The anchor direction of the `WrapSurface`. See `WrapSurface` documentation.   
  
makeWrapCone (cone is Cone, anchorPoint is Vector, spin is ValueWithUnits)
returns WrapSurface

Make a `WrapSurface` for `opWrap` from a `Cone`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`cone` | `Cone`| The definition cone for the `WrapSurface`.   
`anchorPoint` | `Vector`| The anchor point of the `WrapSurface`. See `WrapSurface` documentation.   
`spin` | `ValueWithUnits`| Angle of a counter-clockwise spin to apply to the `cone`'s canonical `anchorDirection` at the given `anchorPoint` about the normal at the `anchorPoint`. This spun direction is then used as the `anchorDirection`. See `WrapSurface` documentation for a description of `anchorDirection`.   
  
makeWrapCone (cone is Cone, anchorPoint is Vector, anchorDirection is Vector)
returns WrapSurface

Make a `WrapSurface` for `opWrap` from a `Cone`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`cone` | `Cone`| The definition cone for the `WrapSurface`.   
`anchorPoint` | `Vector`| The anchor point of the `WrapSurface`. See `WrapSurface` documentation.   
`anchorDirection` | `Vector`| The anchor direction of the `WrapSurface`. See `WrapSurface` documentation.   
  
makeWrapCone (context is Context, conicalFace is Query, anchorPoint is Vector,
anchorDirection is Vector) returns WrapSurface

Make a `WrapSurface` for `opWrap` from a conical face.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`conicalFace` | `Query`| A conical face to use as the definition cone for the `WrapSurface`.   
`anchorPoint` | `Vector`| The anchor point of the `WrapSurface`. See `WrapSurface` documentation.   
`anchorDirection` | `Vector`| The anchor direction of the `WrapSurface`. See `WrapSurface` documentation.   
  
## Onshape features

## bodyDraft

bodyDraft (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

An operation that performs an `opBodyDraft`.

bodyDraftEditLogic (context is Context, id is Id, oldDefinition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), isCreating is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean), specifiedParameters is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

body draft editing logic

## boolean

booleanBodies (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

The boolean feature. Performs an `opBoolean` after a possible `opOffsetFace`
if the operation is subtraction.

convertNewBodyOpToBoolOp (operationType is NewBodyOperationType) returns
BooleanOperationType

Maps a `NewBodyOperationType` (used in features like `extrude`) to its
corresponding `BooleanOperationType`.

booleanStepTypePredicate (booleanDefinition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) predicate

Predicate which specifies a field `operationType` of type
`NewBodyOperationType`. Used by body-creating feature preconditions such as
extrude, revolve, sweep or loft.

When used in a precondition, `NewBodyOperationType` creates UI like the
extrude feature, with a horizontal list of the words "New", "Add", etc. When
using this predicate in features, make sure to export an import of `tool.fs`
so that `NewBodyOperationType` is visible to the Part Studios:

    
    
    export import(path : "onshape/std/tool.fs", version : "");
    

booleanStepScopePredicate (booleanDefinition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) predicate

Used by body-creating feature preconditions to allow post-creation booleans,
specifying the merge scope (or "Merge with all") for that boolean.

Designed to be used together with `booleanStepTypePredicate`.

booleanPatternScopePredicate (booleanDefinition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) predicate

Used by body-creating pattern feature preconditions to allow post-creation
booleans with surfaces or solids, specifying the merge scope (or "Merge with
all") for that boolean.

processNewBodyIfNeeded (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), reconstructOp is
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function))

This function is designed to be used by body-creating features (like
`extrude`) as a boolean post-processing step with options from
`booleanStepTypePredicate` and `booleanStepScopePredicate` in the case where
the preceding operations of the feature have created new solid or surface
bodies. On top of the regular boolean operation, converts the `operationType`
and creates error bodies on failure.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`id` | `Id`| identifier of the main feature   
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `operationType`

| `NewBodyOperationType`| EXAMPLE

> `NewBodyOperationType.ADD` performs a boolean union

EXAMPLE

> `NewBodyOperationType.NEW` does nothing  
  
  * `defaultScope`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` indicates merge scope of "everything else" (default)

EXAMPLE

> `false` indicates merge scope is specified in `booleanScope`  
  
  * `booleanScope`

| `Query`| targets to use if `defaultScope` is false  
  
  * `seed`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ If set, will be included in the tools section of the
boolean.  
  
  * `mergeScopeExclusion`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ If set, will be excluded from the targets section of
the boolean.  
`reconstructOp` | `[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)`| A function which takes in an Id, and reconstructs the input to show to the user as error geometry in case the input is problematic or the boolean itself fails.  EXAMPLE

> `function() {}` . For a more elaborate example see the source code of
> revolve feature in the Standard Library.  
  
surfaceOperationTypePredicate (surfaceDefinition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) predicate

Predicate which specifies a field `surfaceOperationType` of type
`NewSurfaceOperationType`. Used by surface-creating feature preconditions such
as revolve, sweep or loft.

When used in a precondition, `NewSurfaceOperationType` creates UI like the
sweep feature, with a horizontal list of the words "New" and "Add". When using
this predicate in features, make sure to export an import of `tool.fs` so that
`NewSurfaceOperationType` is visible to the Part Studios:

    
    
    export import(path : "onshape/std/tool.fs", version : "");
    

surfaceJoinStepScopePredicate (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
predicate

Used by surface-creating feature preconditions to allow post-creation
booleans, specifying the merge scope (or "Merge with all") for that boolean.

Designed to be used together with `surfaceOperationTypePredicate`.

joinSurfaceBodiesWithAutoMatching (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), makeSolid is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean), reconstructOp is
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function))

This function is designed to be used by surface-body-creating features (like
`extrude`) as a boolean post-processing step with options from
`surfaceOperationTypePredicate` and `surfaceJoinStepScopePredicate`. It
detects matching edges of adjacent bodies and joins surface bodies at these
edges.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`id` | `Id`| identifier of the feature   
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `defaultSurfaceScope`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` indicates merge scope of all the original and related surfaces used
> as input to create this surface (default)

EXAMPLE

> `false` indicates merge scope is specified in `booleanSurfaceScope`  
  
  * `booleanSurfaceScope`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ targets to use if `defaultSurfaceScope` is false
Default is `qNothing()`  
  
  * `seed`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ Default is `qNothing()` If set, will be included in the
tools section of the boolean.  
`makeSolid` | `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Tries to join the surfaces into a solid   
`reconstructOp` | `[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)`| A function which takes in an Id, and reconstructs the input to show to the user as error geometry in case the input is problematic or the join itself fails.  EXAMPLE

> `function() {}` . For a more elaborate example see the source code of
> revolve feature in the Standard Library.  
  
## bridgingCurve

BridgingCurveMatchType enum

Specifies how the bridging curve will match the vertex or edge at each side

Value| Description  
---|---  
`POSITION` | The bridging curve will end at the provided vertex. Direction of the curve is unspecified   
`TANGENCY` | The bridging curve will end at the vertex and the curve will be tangent to the edge   
`CURVATURE` | The bridging curve will end at the vertex and the curve will have same curvature as the edge at the vertex   
`G3` |   
  
BIAS_BOUNDS const

A `RealBoundSpec` for bias of a tangency/tangency bridge, defaulting to `0.5`.

bridgingCurve (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates a curve between two points, optionally with matching of tangency or
curvature to other curves at that point

SideQueries type

Data type for side queries

Value| Type| Description | `SideQueries` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `vertex`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ The vertex element on a side query  
  
  * `edge`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ The edge element on a side query  
  
  * `face`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ The face element on a side query  
  
SideData type

Data type for precomputed side data

Value| Type| Description | `SideData` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `point`

| `Vector`| The position  
  
  * `frame`

| `EdgeCurvatureResult`|  _Optional_ The coordSystem and curvature at the
given position  
  
TwoSidesData type

Aggregation of both sides SideData

Value| Type| Description | `TwoSidesData` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `side1`

| `SideData`| SideData map for start side  
  
  * `side2`

| `SideData`| SideData map for end side  
  
BridgingSideData type

Data type for unified control points computation

Value| Type| Description | `BridgingSideData` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `degree`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| 0 for positional continuity (G0),
1 for tangent continuity (G1), 2 for curvature continuity (G2)  
  
  * `position`

| `Vector`| The position  
  
  * `tangent`

| `Vector`|  _Required if`degree` >= 1 _The tangent direction vector  
  
  * `speedScale`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Optional_ How much to scale the
default speed  
  
  * `curvatureDirection`

| `Vector`|  _Required if`degree` == 2 _The curvature direction vector  
  
  * `curvature`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`degree` == 2 _The curvature magnitude
(inverse length units)  
  
  * `curvatureOffsetScale`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Optional_ How much to scale the
default third control point offset  
  
computeBridgingControlPoints (context is Context, side1 is BridgingSideData,
side2 is BridgingSideData) returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns an array of control points for a bridigng bezier curve given two side
constraints

## bsurf

BSurfEndDerivativeType enum

Specifies an end condition for one side of a boundary surface.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`DEFAULT` |   
`NORMAL_TO_PROFILE` |   
`TANGENT_TO_PROFILE` |   
`MATCH_TANGENT` |   
`MATCH_CURVATURE` |   
`NORMAL_DIRECTION` |   
`TANGENT_DIRECTION` |   
  
BSurfComputationType enum

How the boundary surface is computed

Value| Description  
---|---  
`COONS` |   
`MINIMIZATION` |   
  
boundarySurface (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature for testing Boundary Surface strategies

## chamfer

chamfer (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

The chamfer feature directly performs an `opChamfer` operation.

## circularPattern

circularPattern (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Performs a body, face, or feature circular pattern. Internally, performs an
`applyPattern`, which in turn performs an `opPattern` or, for a feature
pattern, calls the feature function.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `patternType`

| `PatternType`|  _Optional_ Specifies a `PART`, `FEATURE`, or `FACE` pattern.
Default is `PART`.  
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`|  _Required if`patternType` is `PART`_The parts to pattern.  EXAMPLE

> `qCreatedBy(id + "extrude1", EntityType.BODY)`  
  
  * `faces`

| `Query`|  _Required if`patternType` is `FACE`_The faces to pattern.  
  
  * `instanceFunction`

| `FeatureList`|  _Required if`patternType` is `FEATURE`_The `FeatureList` of
the features to pattern.  
  
  * `axis`

| `Query`| The axis of the pattern.  
  
  * `angle`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The angle between each pattern instance, or the total
angle spanned by the pattern if `equalSpace` is `true`.  EXAMPLE

> `360 * degree`  
  
  * `instanceCount`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| The resulting number of pattern
entities, unless `isCentered` is `true`.  EXAMPLE

> `4` to have 4 resulting pattern entities (including the seed).  
  
  * `oppositeDirection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` to switch the direction of the pattern around the axis.  
  
  * `equalSpace`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` for the entire pattern to lie within `angle`

EXAMPLE

> `false` for there to be `angle` between each pattern instance (default)  
  
  * `isCentered`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether to center
the pattern on the seed. When set to `true`, `instanceCount - 1` pattern
entities are created in each direction around the axis. Default is `false`.  
  
  * `operationType`

| `NewBodyOperationType`|  _Optional_ Specifies how the newly created body
will be merged with existing bodies.  
  
  * `defaultScope`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` to merge with all other bodies

EXAMPLE

> `false` to merge with `booleanScope`  
  
  * `booleanScope`

| `Query`|  _Required if`defaultScope` is `false`_The specified bodies to
merge with.  
  
  * `skipInstances`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether to exclude
certain instances of the pattern.  
  
  * `skippedInstances`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Required if`skipInstances` is
`true`_Which instances of the pattern to skip. Each is denoted by a single
index, which may be negative if `isCentered` is `true`.  EXAMPLE

> `[{ index: -3 }, { index: 2 }, { index: 5 }]`  
  
## compositeCurve

compositeCurve (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates one or more Curves that are a combination of edges from various
sources, be they parts, surfaces, sketches or other Curves.

## compositePart

compositePart (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature that creates a composite part from provided bodies. Performs an
`opCreateCompositePart`.

## constrainedSurface

ConstrainedSurfaceType enum

Constrained surface input type

Value| Description  
---|---  
`POINTS` |   
`MESH` |   
  
DeviationType enum

Constrained surface deviation display type

Value| Description  
---|---  
`MAX` |   
`ALL` |   
  
OptimizationMethod enum

Constrained surface optimization type

Value| Description  
---|---  
`PERF` |   
`SMOOTH` |   
  
deviationParameters (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) predicate

Predicate for deviation computation. Provides required inputs for
evPointsDeviation.

constrainedSurface (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Constrained surface feature. Takes an arbitrary number of vertices and
optional normal directions or meshes and creates a surface passing through the
vertices/mesh points within a provided tolerance. Can optionally compute and
show the deviation between the input vertices/mesh points and the created
surface.

## cplane

CPlaneType enum

The method of defining a construction plane.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`OFFSET` |   
`PLANE_POINT` |   
`LINE_ANGLE` |   
`LINE_POINT` |   
`THREE_POINT` |   
`MID_PLANE` |   
`CURVE_POINT` |   
`TANGENT_PLANE` |   
  
cPlane (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates a construction plane feature by calling `opPlane`.

## curvePattern

CurvePatternSpacingType enum

Specifies the type of spacing between pattern instances.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`EQUAL` | Equal-spaced instances along the length of curve   
`DISTANCE` | Instances spaced by custom distance   
  
curvePattern (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Performs a body, face, or feature curve pattern. Internally, performs an
`applyPattern`, which in turn performs an `opPattern` or, for a feature
pattern, calls the feature function.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `patternType`

| `PatternType`|  _Optional_ Specifies a `PART`, `FEATURE`, or `FACE` pattern.
Default is `PART`.  
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`|  _Required if`patternType` is `PART`_The parts to pattern.  EXAMPLE

> `qCreatedBy(id + "extrude1", EntityType.BODY)`  
  
  * `faces`

| `Query`|  _Required if`patternType` is `FACE`_The faces to pattern.  
  
  * `instanceFunction`

| `FeatureList`|  _Required if`patternType` is `FEATURE`_The `FeatureList` of
the features to pattern.  
  
  * `edges`

| `Query`| A `Query` for a set of edges to pattern along. The edges must form
a continuous path.  
  
  * `spacingType`

| `CurvePatternSpacingType`| Specifies the type of spacing between pattern
entities. Default is `EQUAL`.  
  
  * `distance`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`spacingType` is `DISTANCE`_The distance
between each pattern entity.  EXAMPLE

> `1.0 * inch` to space the pattern entities 1 inch apart.  
  
  * `instanceCount`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| The resulting number of pattern
entities.  EXAMPLE

> `2` to have 2 resulting pattern entities (including the seed).  
  
  * `keepOrientation`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` for the pattern entities to keep the orientation of the seed

EXAMPLE

> `false` for the pattern entities to reorient along the path (default)  
  
  * `operationType`

| `NewBodyOperationType`|  _Optional_ Specifies how the newly created body
will be merged with existing bodies.  
  
  * `defaultScope`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` to merge with all other bodies

EXAMPLE

> `false` to merge with `booleanScope`  
  
  * `booleanScope`

| `Query`|  _Required if`defaultScope` is `false`_The specified bodies to
merge with.  
  
  * `skipInstances`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether to exclude
certain instances of the pattern.  
  
  * `skippedInstances`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Required if`skipInstances` is
`true`_Which instances of the pattern to skip. Each is denoted by a single
positive index.  EXAMPLE

> `[{ index: 2 }, { index: 5 }]`  
  
## cutlist

cutlist (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Create a cut list from a set of frame selections.

cutlistEditLogic (context is Context, id is Id, oldDefinition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), isCreating is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

internal

## decal

decal (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature to place and position decal attributes on a surface.

vectorInPlanePerpendicularToZ (planeNormal is Vector) returns Vector

For a plane, get the x direction that is perpendicular to the global Z axis

## deleteBodies

CompositePartDeleteOptions enum

Options that determine how the Delete part feature handles composite parts

Value| Description  
---|---  
`DELETE` | Any selected composite parts are deleted along with their constituents   
`DISSOLVE` | Constituents of composites are only deleted if explicitly selected   
`IGNORE` | Disallow selection of composite parts   
  
deleteBodies (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an `opDeleteBodies`.

## deleteFace

DeleteFaceType enum

Specifies how the void resulting from delete face should be closed, if at all.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`HEAL` | Close void by shrinking or growing adjacent faces.   
`CAP` | Close void by a simple surface passing through all edges.   
`VOID` | Do not close the void. Creates surface out of solids.   
  
deleteFace (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an `opDeleteFace`. Has options to heal the void created by
removing the selected faces, or to leave it open.

## draft

DraftFeatureType enum

Types of drafts available for the draft feature.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`NEUTRAL_PLANE` | Draft by holding the intersection between a set of faces and a neutral plane as a constant.   
`PARTING_LINE` | Draft by holding a set of parting edges as a constant.   
  
PartingLineSides enum

Specifies which faces to draft when drafting with
DraftFeatureType.PARTING_LINE.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`ONE_SIDED` | Draft one of the faces attached to the parting line.   
`SYMMETRIC` | Draft both of the faces attached to the parting line symmetrically.   
`TWO_SIDED` | Draft both of the faces attached to the parting line with separate draft angles.   
  
draft (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an `opDraft`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `draftFeatureType`

| `DraftFeatureType`|  _Optional_ Specifies a `NEUTRAL_PLANE` or
`PARTING_LINE` draft. Default is `NEUTRAL_PLANE`.  
  
  * `neutralPlane`

| `Query`|  _Required if`draftFeatureType` is `NEUTRAL_PLANE` _A planar face
or mate connector defining both the neutral plane and pull direction of the
the draft. The intersection of the drafted faces and the neutral plane remains
unchanged. The pull direction of the draft will be the face normal or mate
connector z-axis.  
  
  * `draftFaces`

| `Query`|  _Required if`draftFeatureType` is `NEUTRAL_PLANE` _The faces to
draft for a `NEUTRAL_PLANE` draft.  
  
  * `pullDirectionEntity`

| `Query`|  _Required if`draftFeatureType` is `PARTING_LINE` _An entity
defining the pull direction of the draft. This entity should conform to the
`ALLOWS_DIRECTION` specification in `QueryFilterCompound`.  
  
  * `partingEdges`

| `Query`|  _Required if`draftFeatureType` is `PARTING_LINE` _Edges defining
the parting line of the draft. These edges will remain unchanged as some
adjacent faces, as defined by `partingLineSides`, are drafted.  
  
  * `hintFaces`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ For Onshape internal use. For `PARTING_LINE` draft,
specifies in advance which adjacent faces of `partingEdges` should be treated
as more along the pull direction. When unspecified, the feature will use a
geometric calculation to determine this distinction.  
  
  * `partingLineSides`

| `PartingLineSides`|  _Required if`draftFeatureType` is `PARTING_LINE`
_Specifies whether to draft one or both faces adjacent to the parting edges,
and whether the draft should be symmetrical if drafting both faces. See
`PartingLineSides`.  
  
  * `alongPull`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Required if`PartingLineSides`
is `ONE_SIDED` _Specifies which face will be drafted in a `ONE_SIDED`
`PARTING_LINE` draft. If `true`, the face which is more along the pull
direction from the perspective of the parting edge is drafted. If `false`, the
face which is more away from the pull direction from the perspective of the
parting edge is drafted.  
  
  * `angle`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The draft angle, must be between 0 and 89.9 degrees.
EXAMPLE

> `3 * degree`  
  
  * `pullDirection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether the pull
direction of the draft should be reversed. In equivalent terms, whether the
draft should use `-angle` as the draft angle (`true`), or `angle` as the draft
angle (`false`). Default is `false`.  
  
  * `secondAngle`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`PartingLineSides` is `TWO_SIDED` _The second
draft angle for a `TWO_SIDED` `PARTING_LINE` draft. Must be between 0 and 89.9
degrees. Note that when using `TWO_SIDED`, `angle` will be applied to faces
that are away from the pull direction, from the perspective of the edge.
`secondAngle` will be applied to faces that are along the pull direction, from
the perspective of the edge.  EXAMPLE

> `3 * degree`  
  
  * `secondPullDirection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether the pull
direction of the draft should be reversed for the second angle of a
`TWO_SIDED` draft. In equivalent terms, whether the draft should use
`-secondAngle` as the second draft angle (`true`), or `secondAngle` as the
second draft angle (`false`). Default is `false`.  
  
  * `tangentPropagation`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ For a
`NEUTRAL_PLANE` draft, `true` to propagate draft across tangent faces. Default
is `false`.  
  
  * `referenceEdgePropagation`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ For a `PARTING_LINE`
draft, `true` to extend the parting line across connected edges of already
included faces and tangent faces. Default is `false`.  
  
  * `reFillet`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` to attempt to
defillet draft faces before the draft and reapply the fillets after. Default
is `false`.  
  
## editCurve

CONTROL_POINT_INDEX_BOUND const

An `IntegerBoundSpec` for control point indices.

PlaneReference enum

Reference plane enum for planarization

Value| Description  
---|---  
`BEST` |   
`YZPLANE` |   
`XZPLANE` |   
`XYPLANE` |   
`CUSTOM` |   
  
editCurve (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

A curve editing feature.

onEditCurveManipulatorChange (context is Context, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), newManipulators is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Manipulator change handling for curve editing

editCurveEditLogic (context is Context, id is Id, oldDefinition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), isCreating is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Edit logic function for curve editing

## enclose

enclose (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an `opEnclose`.

## endcap

endcap (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Construct a endcap.

## extend

ExtendBoundingType enum

Bounding type used with extend.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`BLIND` |   
`UP_TO_FACE` |   
`UP_TO_BODY` |   
`UP_TO_VERTEX` |   
  
extendSurface (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Extends a surface body by calling `opExtendSheetBody`.

## externalThread

externalThread (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Given a list of edge or selections and an optional offset, find the
cylindrical faces corresponding to them split the face at the offset, and add
external thread size data.

getSplitData (context is Context, topLevelId is Id, endEdge is Query,
minorDiameter is ValueWithUnits) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

From a starting edge selection, get data about a valid cylindrical face to
annotation and/or cut and data about the direction to cut.

## extrude

extrude (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Create an extrude, as used in Onshape's extrude feature.

Internally, performs an `opExtrude`, followed by an `opBoolean`, possibly
followed by a `opDraft`, possibly in two directions. If creating a simple
extrusion, prefer using `opExtrude` alone.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `bodyType`

| `ExtendedToolBodyType`|  _Optional_ Specifies a `SOLID` or `SURFACE` or
`THIN` extrude. Default is `SOLID`.  
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`|  _Required if`bodyType` is `SOLID`_The planar faces and/or sketch
regions to extrude.  EXAMPLE

> `qSketchRegion(id + "sketch1")` specifies all sketch regions of a given
> sketch.  
  
  * `surfaceEntities`

| `Query`|  _Required if`bodyType` is `SURFACE`_The sketch curves to extrude.
EXAMPLE

> `qCreatedBy(id + "sketch1", EntityType.EDGE)`  
  
  * `endBound`

| `BoundingType`|  _Optional_ The end bounding condition for the extrude.
Default is `BLIND`.  
  
  * `oppositeDirection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` to flip the direction of the extrude to point opposite the
> face/sketch normal.  
  
  * `depth`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`endBound` is `BLIND`_A length specifying the
extrude depth. For a blind extrude, specifies the depth of the first extrude
direction. For a symmetric extrude, specifies the full extrude depth.  EXAMPLE

> `0.5 * inch`  
  
  * `endBoundEntityFace`

| `Query`|  _Required if`endBound` is `UP_TO_SURFACE`_Specifies the face or
surface to bound the extrude.  
  
  * `endBoundEntityBody`

| `Query`|  _Required if`endBound` is `UP_TO_BODY`_Specifies the surface or
solid body to bound the extrude.  
  
  * `endBoundEntityVertex`

| `Query`|  _Required if`endBound` is `UP_TO_VERTEX`_Specifies the vertex to
bound the extrude.  
  
  * `hasOffset`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` to add a translational offset from the selected face, surface, solid
> body or vertex.  
  
  * `offsetDistance`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`offset` is `true`_The translational distance
between the selected face, surface, solid body or vertex and the cap of the
extrude.  EXAMPLE

> `0.5 * inch`  
  
  * `offsetOppositeDirection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `false` to offset away from the selected end bound (default)

EXAMPLE

> `true` to offset into the selected end bound  
  
  * `hasDraft`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` to add a draft to the extrude.  
  
  * `draftAngle`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`hasDraft` is `true`_The angle, as measured
from the extrude direction, at which to draft.  EXAMPLE

> `10 * degree`  
  
  * `draftPullDirection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `false` to draft outwards (default)

EXAMPLE

> `true` to draft inwards  
  
  * `hasSecondDirection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` to specify a second direction.  
  
  * `secondDirectionBound`

| `BoundingType`|  _Optional_ The bounding type of the second direction. Can
be different from the bounding type of the first direction.  
  
  * `secondDirectionOppositeDirection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` will flip the second end direction to align opposite the plane/face's
> normal.  
  
  * `secondDirectionDepth`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`secondDirectionBound` is `BLIND`_A length
specifying the second direction's extrude depth.  
  
  * `secondDirectionBoundEntityFace`

| `Query`|  _Required if`secondDirectionBound` is `UP_TO_SURFACE`_specifies
the face or surface to bound the extrude.  
  
  * `secondDirectionBoundEntityBody`

| `Query`|  _Required if`secondDirectionBound` is `UP_TO_BODY`_specifies the
surface or solid body to bound the extrude.  
  
  * `secondDirectionBoundEntityVertex`

| `Query`|  _Required if`secondDirectionBound` is `UP_TO_VERTEX`_specifies the
vertex to bound the extrude.  
  
  * `hasSecondDirectionOffset`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` to add a translational offset from the selected face, surface, solid
> body or vertex.  
  
  * `secondDirectionOffsetDistance`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`offset` is `true`_The translational distance
between the selected face, surface, solid body or vertex and the cap of the
extrude.  EXAMPLE

> `0.5 * inch`  
  
  * `secondDirectionOffsetOppositeDirection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `false` to offset away from the selected second direction end bound
> (default)

EXAMPLE

> `true` to offset into the selected second direction end bound  
  
  * `hasSecondDirectionDraft`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` to add a draft to the second direction extrude.  
  
  * `secondDirectionDraftPullDirection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `false` to draft the second direction outwards (default)

EXAMPLE

> `true` to draft the second direction inwards  
  
  * `operationType`

| `NewBodyOperationType`|  _Optional_ Specifies how the newly created body
will be merged with existing bodies.  
  
  * `defaultScope`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` to merge with all other bodies

EXAMPLE

> `false` to merge with `booleanScope`  
  
  * `booleanScope`

| `Query`|  _Required if`defaultScope` is `false`_The specified bodies to
merge with.  
  
  * `wallShape`

| `Query`|  _Required if`bodyType` is `THIN`_The specified planar face or
sketch edges defining the thin wall shape.  
  
  * `thickness1`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`bodyType` is `THIN`_The outwards thickness
of the thin wall.  
  
  * `thickness2`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`bodyType` is `THIN`_The inwards thickness of
the thin wall.  
  
  * `flipWall`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` to apply the first offset value instead of the second and vice versa  
  
## faceBlend

faceBlend (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing a face blend.

## faceIntersection

intersectionCurve (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates curves where two faces intersect.

## fillSurface

fill (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates a surface bounded by input edges with prescribed continuity
conditions, using `opFillSurface`.

## fillet

fillet (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an `opFillet` or `opFullRoundFillet`.

## fitSpline

FitSplineType enum

The type of fit spline.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`VERTICES` | Creates spline through selected vertices.   
`EDGES` | Approximates a set of edges by a single spline.   
  
fitSpline (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing either `opFitSpline` or `opSplineThroughEdges` depending on
selection

## frame

frame (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Create frames from a profile and set of path selections.

## frameTrim

frameTrim (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Trim frames against faces, or perform an ordered trim of frame groups.

## gusset

GussetStyleType enum

Defines the shape of the gusset.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`TRIANGLE` |   
`RECTANGLE` |   
  
GussetPosition enum

Defines the alignment of the gusset.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`CENTERED` |   
`ALIGNED` |   
  
gusset (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Create gussets based on the selected edges.

## helix

AxisType enum

Describes the type of body on which to create a helix.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`SURFACE` | Impose a helix onto a cylinder or cone.   
`AXIS` | Revolve a helix around an axial edge or mate connector.   
`CIRCLE` | Revolve a helix along a circular path.   
  
PathType enum

Describes the parameter(s) to vary when computing the path of a helix.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`TURNS` | Allow only the number of turns (revolutions) to be varied.   
`PITCH` | Allow only the space between each turn (helical pitch) to be varied.   
`TURNS_PITCH` | Allow both turns and pitch to be varied. Always results in a cylindrical helix.   
  
StartType enum

Describes the starting condition of a helix.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`START_ANGLE` | Start the helix at an angle around the origin of the base.   
`START_POINT` | Start the helix at a point of choice along the plane of the base.   
  
EndType enum

Describes the ending condition of a helix.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`HEIGHT` | End the helix at a specified height.   
`END_POINT` | End the helix at a specified point along a perpendicular plane to the base.   
  
Direction enum

Describes the direction a helix turns while traveling along its axis.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`CW` | Clockwise.   
`CCW` | Counterclockwise.   
  
helix (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an `opHelix`.

## hole

HoleEndStyle enum

Defines the end bound for the hole cut.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`BLIND` | Cut holes to a specific depth.   
`BLIND_IN_LAST` | Cut holes through all parts but the last, then cut to a specific depth in the last part.   
`UP_TO_NEXT` |   
`UP_TO_ENTITY` |   
`THROUGH` | Cut holes with a through-all extrude.   
  
HoleEndStyleV2 enum

Defines the end bound for the hole cut.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`BLIND` | Cut holes to a specific depth.   
`UP_TO_NEXT` |   
`UP_TO_ENTITY` |   
`THROUGH` | Cut holes with a through-all extrude.   
  
TipAngleStyle enum

Defines the tip angle style for the hole tip

Value| Description  
---|---  
`DEGREE118` | Tip angle is set at 118 degrees   
`DEGREE135` | Tip angle is set at 135 degrees   
`FLAT` | Tip angle is flat or 180 degrees   
`CUSTOM` | User inputs specific angle value   
  
HoleStartStyle enum

Defines the options to adjust hole position.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`PART` | Cut holes starting from the hole location.   
`SKETCH` | Cut holes starting from the first full entrance.   
`PLANE` | Cut holes starting at the selected input.   
  
parsePitch (context is Context, pitch is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))

Parse and split the numerical and unit portion of a pitch string, e.g. "20
tpi"

buildPitchAnnotation (context is Context, pitch is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))

Parse a pitch string, e.g. "20 tpi" or "1.5 mm, and return its annotation
suffix in imperial or metric format, e.g. -20 or x1.5

hole (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates holes of specific dimensions and style, based either on standard hole
size, or by user-defined values. Each hole's position and orientation are
specified using sketch points.

CSINK_ANGLE_BOUNDS const

Angle bounds for a hole countersink.

computePitchValue (context is Context, pitch is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))

Extract value from pitch string

clusterVertexQueries (context is Context, selected is Query) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Expects `selected` query to evaluate to a set of vertices. Throws if non-
vertex is passed.

Clusters coincident vertices created by the same operation, it is important to
group by operation because we may have multiple sketches with different
normals which share a location. We would still want to make two holes in that
case.

Returns an array of vertices, each representing the "first" vertex of a
cluster, where "first" is determined by the query evaluation order of
`selected`. The overall ordering of the returned array will also respect the
query evaluation order of `selected`.

## holeTable

holeTable const

Computes one hole table for each part

## importDerived

DerivedPlacementType enum

Enum controlling the placement of derived entities in the target part studio.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`AT_ORIGIN` |   
`AT_MATE_CONNECTOR` |   
  
BuildFunction type

A special type for functions defined as the `build` function for a Part
Studio, which return a context containing parts.

canBeBuildFunction (value) predicate

Typecheck for `BuildFunction`

importDerived (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature using `PartStudioData` for including parts in one Part Studio that
were designed in another.

Location query determines where in the current Part Studio the selections will
be located. Bringing in multiple instances using multiple location queries is
allowed but not recommended.

One can use the origin or a mate connector from the base Part Studio for
placement in the current Part Studio.

## importForeign

ForeignId type

A `string` representing a foreign element, such as the `dataId` from an
imported tab.

canBeForeignId (value) predicate

Typecheck for `ForeignId`

importForeign (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an `opImportForeign`, transforming the result if necessary.

## isocline

isocline (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates curves or split faces in a given direction at a given degree.

## isoparametricCurve

isoparametricCurve (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates isoparametric curves on faces by using `opCreateCurvesOnFace`

## linearPattern

linearPattern (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Performs a body, face, or feature linear pattern. Internally, performs an
`applyPattern`, which in turn performs an `opPattern` or, for a feature
pattern, calls the feature function.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `patternType`

| `PatternType`|  _Optional_ Specifies a `PART`, `FEATURE`, or `FACE` pattern.
Default is `PART`.  
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`|  _Required if`patternType` is `PART`_The parts to pattern.  EXAMPLE

> `qCreatedBy(id + "extrude1", EntityType.BODY)`  
  
  * `faces`

| `Query`|  _Required if`patternType` is `FACE`_The faces to pattern.  
  
  * `instanceFunction`

| `FeatureList`|  _Required if`patternType` is `FEATURE`_The `FeatureList` of
the features to pattern.  
  
  * `directionOne`

| `Query`| The direction of the pattern.  EXAMPLE

> `qCreatedBy(newId() + "Right", EntityType.FACE)`  
  
  * `distance`

| `ValueWithUnits`| The distance between each pattern entity.  EXAMPLE

> `1.0 * inch` to space the pattern entities 1 inch apart.  
  
  * `instanceCount`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| The resulting number of pattern
entities, unless `isCentered` is `true`.  EXAMPLE

> `2` to have 2 resulting pattern entities (including the seed).  
  
  * `oppositeDirection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` to switch the direction of the pattern along `directionOne`.  
  
  * `isCentered`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether to center
the pattern on the seed. When set to `true`, `instanceCount - 1` pattern
entities are created along each direction of `directionOne`. Default is
`false`.  
  
  * `hasSecondDir`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` if the pattern should extend in two directions rather than one,
> creating a grid of pattern entities.  
  
  * `directionTwo`

| `Query`|  _Required if`hasSecondDir` is `true`_The second direction of the
pattern.  
  
  * `distanceTwo`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`hasSecondDir` is `true`_The distance between
each pattern entity in the second direction.  
  
  * `instanceCountTwo`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Required if`hasSecondDir` is
`true`_The resulting number of pattern entities in the second direction,
unless `isCentered` is `true`.  
  
  * `oppositeDirectionTwo`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` to switch the direction of the pattern along `directionTwo`.  
  
  * `isCenteredTwo`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether to center
the second direction of the pattern on the seed. When set to `true`,
`instanceCount - 1` pattern entities are created along each direction of
`directionTwo`. Default is `false`.  
  
  * `operationType`

| `NewBodyOperationType`|  _Optional_ Specifies how the newly created body
will be merged with existing bodies.  
  
  * `defaultScope`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` to merge with all other bodies

EXAMPLE

> `false` to merge with `booleanScope`  
  
  * `booleanScope`

| `Query`|  _Required if`defaultScope` is `false`_The specified bodies to
merge with.  
  
  * `skipInstances`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether to exclude
certain instances of the pattern.  
  
  * `skippedInstances`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`|  _Required if`skipInstances` is
`true`_Which instances of the pattern to skip. Each is denoted by one index
for each direction, either of which may be negative if `isCentered` or
`isCenteredTwo` respectively is `true`.  EXAMPLE

> `[{ index1: -3, index2: 1 }, { index1: 0, index2: -2 }, { index1: 5, index2:
> 0 }]`  
  
## loft

LoftEndDerivativeType enum

Specifies an end condition for one side of a loft.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`DEFAULT` |   
`NORMAL_TO_PROFILE` |   
`TANGENT_TO_PROFILE` |   
`MATCH_TANGENT` |   
`MATCH_CURVATURE` |   
`NORMAL_DIRECTION` |   
`TANGENT_DIRECTION` |   
  
LoftGuideDerivativeType enum

Specifies derivative condition for a guide

Value| Description  
---|---  
`DEFAULT` |   
`NORMAL_TO_GUIDE` |   
`TANGENT_TO_GUIDE` |   
`MATCH_TANGENT` |   
`MATCH_CURVATURE` |   
  
loft (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an `opLoft`.

## mateConnector

mateConnector (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an `opMateConnector`.

The parameters below are designed for interactive use in the feature dialog.
In FeatureScript, it is preferred to calculate the resulting coordinate system
directly, and pass this coordinate system to `opMateConnector`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `originQuery`

| `Query`| The entity on which to place the mate connector  EXAMPLE

> `qFarthestAlong(qCreatedBy(id + "extrude1", EntityType.VERTEX), vector(1, 1,
> 1))`  
  
  * `entityInferenceType`

| `EntityInferenceType`| A method of producing the coordinate system  EXAMPLE

> `EntityInferenceType.POINT` to place on a vertex, with the world coordinate
> system

EXAMPLE

> `EntityInferenceType.MID_POINT` to place at the midpoint of an edge, with
> the Z axis along the edge  
  
  * `secondaryOriginQuery`

| `query`|  _Optional_ Additional entity to inference with, used in some
inference types.  
  
  * `originType`

| `OriginCreationType`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `OriginCreationType.BETWEEN_ENTITIES` to place mate connector origin on the
> midpoint between the speicified origin and the location of
> `originAdditionalQuery`. Default is `OriginCreationType.ON_ENTITY`.  
  
  * `originAdditionalQuery`

| `Query`|  _Required if`originType` is `OriginCreationType.BETWEEN_ENTITIES`_  
  
  * `flipPrimary`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` to flip the resulting Z axis  
  
  * `secondaryAxisType`

| `MateConnectorAxisType`|  _Optional_ Changes which axis (perpendicular to Z)
will point along the secondary direction. Default is
`MateConnectorAxisType.PLUS_X`  
  
  * `realign`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_`true` to change
direction of axes  
  
  * `primaryAxisQuery`

| `Query`|  _Required if`realign` is `true`_Entity with axis to define the
resulting Z direction  
  
  * `secondaryAxisQuery`

| `Query`|  _Required if`realign` is `true`_Entity with axis to define the
secondary axis (set by `secondaryAxisType`)  
  
  * `transform`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether to change
the origin position with `translationX`, `translationY`, and `translationZ`.
The X/Y/Z directions of this translation are affected by `primaryAxisQuery`
and `secondaryAxisQuery` and `secondaryAxisType`, but not by `rotationType`
and `rotation`  
  
  * `translationX`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`transform` is `true`_Distance to move the
resulting origin along resulting X direction.  
  
  * `translationY`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`transform` is `true`_Distance to move the
resulting origin along resulting Y direction  
  
  * `translationZ`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`transform` is `true`_Distance to move the
resulting origin along resulting Z direction  
  
  * `rotationType`

| `RotationType`|  _Optional_ Axis to rotate around (does not change origin
position)  
  
  * `rotation`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Optional_ Angle to rotate  
  
  * `requireOwnerPart`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ Whether to error if
owner part is not provided. Default is `true`. If `false`, the mate connector
may be an independent body with no owner part.  
  
  * `ownerPart`

| `Query`|  _Required if`requireOwnerPart` is not `false`_Part on which to
attach the resulting mate connector  
  
  * `specifyNormal`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` override the Z direction with the known vector `(definition.nx,
> definition.ny, definition.nz)`. Used internally when the mate connector is
> placed on a mesh.  
  
  * `nx`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Required if`specifyNormal` is
`true`_  
  
  * `ny`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Required if`specifyNormal` is
`true`_  
  
  * `nz`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Required if`specifyNormal` is
`true`_  
  
## mirror

mirror (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature creating a single copy of some features, bodies, or faces, mirrored
about a given entity. Internally, performs an `applyPattern`, which in turn
performs an `opPattern` or, for a feature mirror, calls the feature function.

## modifyFillet

ModifyFilletType enum

Defines the action of a `modifyFillet` feature.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`CHANGE_RADIUS` |   
`REMOVE_FILLET` |   
  
modifyFillet (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an `opModifyFillet`.

## moveCurveBoundary

trimCurve (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Extend or trim a curve. This is a thin wrapper around `opMoveCurveBoundary`.

## moveFace

moveFace (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an `opMoveFace`.

deripEdges (context is Context, id is Id, edges is Query) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Splits input sheet metal edges and adjusts them to lie on corresponding sheet
metal part faces.

## mutualTrim

mutualTrim (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Trim two adjacent surfaces by extending intersections to complete the trim.

## offsetCurveOnFace

OffsetCurveScope enum

Drives the `extend` and `imprint` booleans in opOffsetCurveOnFace.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`OFFSET` |   
`OFFSET_AND_EXTEND` |   
`OFFSET_EXTEND_AND_SPLIT` |   
  
GapFill enum

Whether to use linear or rounded extensions to connect discontinuities within
offset wires.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`LINEAR` |   
`ROUND` |   
  
offsetCurveOnFace (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an offset curve.

## offsetSurface

offsetSurface (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an `opExtractSurface`. Allows creation of an offset surface
from faces, surfaces, or sketch regions. Offset may be zero. Offset direction
may be flipped using the oppositeDirection flag.

## projectCurves

CurveProjectionType enum

Specifies the method used for generating intersection curves.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`TWO_SKETCHES` | Performs `opExtrude` to convert sketches into surface, then uses `opBoolean` to intersect those surfaces.   
`CURVE_TO_FACE` | Performs `opDropCurve` to project curves onto faces.   
  
projectCurves (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature creating projected curves.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `curveProjectionType`

| `CurveProjectionType`|  _Optional_ The method used for generating
intersection curves. Default is `TWO_SKETCHES`.  
  
  * `sketchEdges1`

| `Query`|  _Required if`curveProjectionType` is `TWO_SKETCHES` _Edges from a
single sketch that will be extruded to perform an intersection.  
  
  * `sketchEdges2`

| `Query`|  _Required if`curveProjectionType` is `TWO_SKETCHES` _Edges from a
single sketch that will be extruded to perform an intersection.  
  
  * `dropTools`

| `Query`|  _Required if`curveProjectionType` is `CURVE_TO_FACE` _Edges that
will be projected onto `targets`.  
  
  * `projectionType`

| `ProjectionType`|  _Required if`curveProjectionType` is `CURVE_TO_FACE`
_Specifies whether to project along a direction or the face normal of
`targets`.  
  
  * `directionQuery`

| `Query`|  _Required if`projectionType` is `DIRECTION` _Specifies the
direction of projection.  
  
  * `oppositeDirection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Required if`projectionType` is
`DIRECTION` _If true, negates the direction supplied by `directionQuery`.  
  
  * `targets`

| `Query`|  _Required if`curveProjectionType` is `CURVE_TO_FACE` _Faces, sheet
bodies, or solid bodies to project onto.  
  
## queryVariable

SelectionType enum

Allowed selection types to create query variable.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`SELECTION` |   
`CREATED_BY` |   
`OWNED_BY` |   
`PROTRUSION` |   
`POCKET` |   
`HOLE` |   
`FILLETS` |   
`BOUNDED_FACES` |   
`LOOP_CHAIN_CONNECTED` |   
`PARALLEL` |   
`TANGENT_CONNECTED` |   
`MATCHING` |   
`ALL_SOLID_BODIES` |   
`EDGE_CONVEXITY` |   
  
SeedType enum

Some selection types accept either faces or edges, not both. This enum allows
picking which one.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`FACE` |   
`EDGE` |   
  
FilletCompare enum

Subset of CompareType with just types allowed in qFilletFaces

Value| Description  
---|---  
`EQUAL` |   
`LESS_EQUAL` |   
`GREATER_EQUAL` |   
  
initialQueryPredicate (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
predicate

Predicate showing the selection type and the relevant queries/enum allowed by
this type.

additionalQueryPredicate (addQ is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) predicate

Same as initialQueryPredicate, needs to be separate because of naming
restriction in array parameters.

queryVariable (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature to create a query variable via calling `setQueryVariable`. This
variable may be used in featurescript via call `getQueryVariable` or in the UI
by clicking the "Variable selection" dropdown in the feature dialog or by
selecting the query variable feature in the feature list.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `name`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| The name of the feature. Must not
belong to a non-query variable feature. If a query variable feature with this
name exists, it will be overwritten after this feature.  
  
  * `description`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| Description of the variable.
Maximum length of 256 characters.  
  
  * `selectionType`

| `SelectionType`| The type of selection the initial query will hold.  
  
  * `seedType`

| `SeedType`| If the selection type allows edges or faces, selects the seed
type.  
  
  * `selectionQuery`

| `Query`| If selectionType is SELECTION, query that will be contained in the
variable.  
  
  * `createdByFeatures`

| `FeatureList`| If selectionType is CREATED_BY, features whose created
entities will be contained in the variable.  
  
  * `seedBodies`

| `Query`| If selectionType is OWNED_BY or EDGE_CONVEXITY, bodies owning the
entities that will be contained in the variable.  
  
  * `seedFaces`

| `Query`| If selectionType is PROTRUSION or POCKET or HOLE or FILLETS or
BOUNDED_FACES, or TANGENT_CONNECTED or MATCHING and seedType is FACE, faces
from which the selection is created.  
  
  * `seedEdgesOrFaces`

| `Query`| If selectionType is LOOP_CHAIN_CONNECTED, faces or edges from which
the loops are computed.  
  
  * `seedEdgesOrFaces`

| `Query`| If selectionType is PARALLEL, or TANGENT_CONNECTED or MATCHING and
seedType is EDGE, edges from which the selection is created.  
  
  * `entityType`

| `EntityType`| If selectionType is CREATED_BY or OWNED_BY, the entity type to
include in the variable.  
  
  * `filletCompareType`

| `FilletCompare`| If selectionType is FILLETS, the type of fillets to include
in the variable.  
  
  * `boundedFacesBounds`

| `Query`| If selectionType is BOUNDED_FACES, the faces or edges bounding the
selection.  
  
  * `edgeConvexityType`

| `EdgeConvexityType`| If selectionType is EDGE_CONVEXITY, the convexity type
of edges to include in the variable.  
  
  * `addAdditionalQueries`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether to include addition
queries in the variable.  
  
  * `additionalQueries`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| An array of additional queries to
include. Each item's content is analogous to what is contained in the original
query. It also contains a `booleanOperation` field determining how to combine
the additional query with the current query.  
  
  * `evaluateOnUse`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether to evaluate the variable
when it is created or when it is used.  
  
  * `showSelection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether to highlight the
entities contained in the created variable.  
  
getQueryVariable (context is Context, name is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns Query

Returns a query that was previously stored in a variable of the given name.

setQueryVariable (context is Context, name is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), value is Query)

Saves a query in a variable with the given name.

setQueryVariable (context is Context, name is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), description is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), value is Query)

Saves a query in a variable with the given name and description.

## replaceFace

replaceFace (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an `opReplaceFace`.

## revolve

RevolveType enum

Specifies how a revolve's end condition should be defined.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`FULL` |   
`ONE_DIRECTION` |   
`SYMMETRIC` |   
`TWO_DIRECTIONS` |   
  
revolve (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an `opRevolve`, followed by an `opBoolean`. For simple
revolves, prefer using `opRevolve` directly.

## rib

RibExtrusionDirection enum

Specifies the direction of the rib extrusion starting from the profile going
up to the part.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`PARALLEL_TO_SKETCH_PLANE` | The direction of the rib extrusion goes parallel to the profile sketch plane.   
`NORMAL_TO_SKETCH_PLANE` | The direction of the rib extrusion goes normal to the profile sketch plane.   
  
rib (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates ribs from selected profiles. The ribs can be either free standing or
merged with their mating part. Profiles must be non-construction sketch edges.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `profiles`

| `Query`| Edges which form the center lines of the ribs.  
  
  * `parts`

| `Query`| Parts which form the boundary of the ribs.  
  
  * `thickness`

| `ValueWithUnits`| Thickness of the ribs.  
  
  * `ribExtrusionDirection`

| `RibExtrusionDirection`| Whether the rib is extruded perpendicular or
parallel to the plane.  
  
  * `oppositeDirection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether the ribs are extruded in
the positive or negative direction.  
  
  * `hasDraft`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `true` to add a draft to the rib.  
  
  * `draftAngle`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`hasDraft` is `true`_The angle of the draft
with respect to the extruded direction of the rib.  EXAMPLE

> `10 * degree`  
  
  * `draftPullDirection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ EXAMPLE

> `false` to draft outwards (default)

EXAMPLE

> `true` to draft inwards  
  
  * `extendProfilesUpToPart`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether the ribs are extruded up
to a boundary part.  
  
  * `mergeRibs`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether the ribs are merged with
the mating part.  
  
## routingCurve

RoutingCurveType enum

Curve types.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`INTERPOLATED_SPLINE` |   
`POLYLINE` |   
  
InputType enum

Input types.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`VERTEX` |   
`CURVE` |   
`CSV` |   
  
CurveStep enum

Curve edit modes.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`POINTS` |   
`SEGMENTS` |   
  
DerivativeAlignment enum

Interpolated spline derivative alignments.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`X` |   
`Y` |   
`Z` |   
`DIRECTION` |   
  
ReferenceType enum

Point reference types.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`ORIGIN` |   
`VERTEX` |   
`CURVE` |   
`RELATIVE` |   
  
SegmentEditType enum

Segment edit modes.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`ADD` |   
`ORTHOGONAL` |   
  
OrthoCoordSystem enum

Coordinate system options for the othogonal path segment edit mode.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`WORLD` |   
`CURVE` |   
`OTHER` |   
  
POINT_INDEX_BOUNDS const

Integer bound for segment index in segment edit mode.

SEGMENT_INDEX_BOUNDS const

Integer bound for segment index in segment edit mode.

COLUMN_BOUNDS const

Integer bound for CSV column index.

CURVE_SAMPLE_BOUNDS const

Integer bound for curve sampling.

routingCurve (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates a routing curve feature.

routingCurveManipulator (context is Context, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), newManipulators is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Manipulator handler for routing curve feature.

routingCurveEditLogic (context is Context, id is Id, oldDefinition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), isCreating is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean), specifiedParameters is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), hiddenQueries is Query, clickedButton is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Edit logic function for routing curve.

## ruledSurface

VertexOverrideType enum

The type of ruled surface to apply at a specific vertex.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`NORMAL` |   
`TANGENT` |   
`ALIGNED_WITH_VECTOR` |   
`UP_TO_VERTEX` |   
  
RuledSurfaceInterfaceType enum

The type of ruled surface to apply for the overall operation.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`NORMAL` |   
`TANGENT` |   
`ALIGNED_WITH_VECTOR` |   
`ANGLE_FROM_VECTOR` |   
  
ruledSurface (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature creating a ruled surface.

## sheetMetalAttribute

Modules prefixed with "sheetMetal" here and below control functionality
related to working with sheet metal models in Onshape.

Sheet metal models are created with the `sheetMetalStart` feature. The
geometry of these models is not modifiable with ordinary geometry operations,
and an operation which attempts to modify a sheet metal model will always
throw the error `ErrorStringEnum.SHEET_METAL_PARTS_PROHIBITED`

Onshape's sheet metal operations are instead encapsulated in features defined
with `defineSheetMetalFeature`. These features directly modify the underlying
sheet metal master body, a hidden surface body not accessible from other
features. The master body (along with `SMAttribute`s set on its entities)
provides the information necessary for `updateSheetMetalGeometry` to build
both sheet metal bodies: the 3D folded body and the flat pattern. The result
is simultaneous sheet metal editing, where geometry and errors are always
available to the end user on both the folded and the flat sheet metal models.

Most custom features will function only on bodies which are not active sheet
metal, because the feature's effects are not readily translatable from the
folded model back to the flattened master model. A custom feature's user will
typically discover this when an operation within the custom feature throws a
`SHEET_METAL_PARTS_PROHIBITED` error, giving the user-facing message "Active
sheet metal models are not allowed."

Additionally, a custom feature's query parameter can disallow selection of
entities from sheet metal bodies using the ActiveSheetMetal.NO filter. Any
other query can be filtered for non-sheet-metal geometry using
`separateSheetMetalQueries`.

SMAttribute type

Sheet metal object definition attribute type.

canBeSMAttribute (value) predicate

parameters in SMAttribute (e.g. radius in BEND, angle in JOINT, thickness in
MODEL) are specified as maps

EXAMPLE

>
>     {
>      value : {ValueWithUnits},
>      canBeEdited : {boolean},
>      controllingFeatureId : {string}, : feature to be edited when editing
> this parameter
>      parameterIdInFeature : {string}
>      }
>  

smAttributeDefault const

Empty map as SMAttribute convenient for attribute lookup

asSMAttribute (value is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns SMAttribute

Attach SMAttribute type to a map. convenient for attribute lookup and queries.

makeSMJointAttribute (attributeId is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))
returns SMAttribute

Start SMAttribute for joint.

makeSMWallAttribute (attributeId is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))
returns SMAttribute

Start SMAttribute for wall.

makeSMCornerAttribute (attributeId is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))
returns SMAttribute

Start SMAttribute for corner.

getSmObjectTypeAttributes (context is Context, topology is Query, objectType
is SMObjectType) returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Get attributes with matching objectType.

clearSmAttributes (context is Context, entities is Query)

Clear SM attributes from entities.

hasSheetMetalAttribute (context is Context, entities is Query, objectType is
SMObjectType) returns [boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Check for presence of SMAttribute types.

replaceSMAttribute (context is Context, existingAttribute is SMAttribute,
newAttribute is SMAttribute) returns Query

For all entities annotated with attribute matching existingAttribute pattern,
replace it with newAttribute. Return query for entities whose attributes have
been modified.

getSMDefinitionEntities (context is Context, selection is Query) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Find sheet metal master body entities corresponding to feature input.

getSMDefinitionEntities (context is Context, selection is Query, entityType is
EntityType) returns [array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

isSheetMetalModelActive (context is Context, sheetMetalModel is Query) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Check if sheet metal model is active.

areEntitiesFromSingleSheetMetalModel (context is Context, entities is Query)
returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Check if all entities belong to the same sheet metal model

areEntitiesFromSingleActiveSheetMetalModel (context is Context, entities is
Query) returns [boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Check if all entities belong to the same active sheet metal model

getWallAttribute (context is Context, wallFace is Query)

Get wall attribute on a single entity

getJointAttribute (context is Context, jointEdge is Query)

Get joint attribute on a single entity

getCornerAttribute (context is Context, cornerVertex is Query)

Get corner attribute on a single entity

SMAssociationAttribute type

Used by sheet metal features to maintain correspondence between master sheet
body entities and folded and flat solid body entities.

canBeSMAssociationAttribute (value) predicate

Association attribute stores `attributeId`. The association is established by
assigning the same attribute to associated entities. Every entity in sheet
metal master sheet body has a distinct association attribute.

makeSMAssociationAttribute (attributeId is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns SMAssociationAttribute

Create an association attribute with the given `attributeId`.

assignSMAssociationAttributes (context is Context, entities is Query)

Assign new association attributes to entities using their transient queries to
generate attribute ids.

smAssociationAttributePattern const

An attribute pattern for finding attributes which are
`SMAssociationAttribute`s.

getSMAssociationAttributes (context is Context, entities is Query)

Get all of the association attributes for a given set of `entities`.

SMCornerBreak type

Information corresponding to a single sheet metal corner break (fillet or
chamfer)

canBeSMCornerBreak (value) predicate

Corner break must hold the break style, the range (radius and distance of
fillet and chamfer respectively), and the wallId of the wall that owns the
corner.

makeSMCornerBreak (cornerBreakStyle is SMCornerBreakStyle, range is
ValueWithUnits, wallId is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
SMCornerBreak

Create a corner break

addCornerBreakToSMAttribute (attribute is SMAttribute, cornerBreakMap is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns SMAttribute

Adds an SMCornerBreak and any additional information to an SMAttribute,
initializing the cornerBreaks array if necessary.

findCornerBreak (attribute is SMAttribute, wallId is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))

Finds an SMCornerBreak in attribute corresponding to wallId, returns undefined
if nothing found

updateCornerAttribute (context is Context, vertex is Query, attribute is
SMAttribute)

Clears existing SMAttribute, sets new one only if non-trivial

sanitizeControllingInformation (context is Context, attribute is SMAttribute,
replaceExisting is [boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)) returns
SMAttribute

Removes all controllingFeatureId and parameterIdInFeature information from an
SMAttribute. Replaces the provided attribute with sanitized attribute if
`replaceExisting` is true. Return the sanitized attribute

Fail if the attribute is a model attribute as a safety precaution, as removing
the controllingFeatureId information from a model attribute would invalidate
it from being the same model attribute as it was before

## sheetMetalBend

BendAlignment enum

Values specifying the alignment of sheet metal after it is bent, relative to
the line

Value| Description  
---|---  
`BEND_LINE` |   
`HELD_EDGE` |   
`BENT_EDGE` |   
`BENT_INSIDE` |   
`BENT_OUTSIDE` |   
`BENT_MIDPLANE` |   
  
BendAngleControlType enum

Angle types for the bend

Value| Description  
---|---  
`BEND_ANGLE` |   
`ALIGN_GEOMETRY` |   
`ANGLE_FROM_DIRECTION` |   
  
sheetMetalBend (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Bend a sheet metal model along a reference line, with additional bend control
options.

## sheetMetalBendRelief

sheetMetalBendRelief (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Bend relief feature is used to override default bend relief of sheet metal
model at individual bend end.

## sheetMetalCorner

sheetMetalCorner (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Corner feature is used to override default sheet metal model corner relief
style or dimensions for an individual corner

## sheetMetalCornerBreak

EdgeBlendType enum

Specifies type of edge blend

Value| Description  
---|---  
`FILLET` |   
`CHAMFER` |   
  
sheetMetalCornerBreak (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Sheet metal specific feature combining functionality of edge fillet and
chamfer. It calls `SMEdgeBlendImpl` to apply fillets or chamfers in flat and
then change the definition surface accordingly As a result of this change rips
corner/bend reliefs are also "baked" into the definition surface and
flexibility of sheet metal model is lost. For this reason we recommend that
this feature is used after sheet metal flanges, joints and reliefs are
finalized.

## sheetMetalEnd

sheetMetalEnd (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Deactivate the sheet metal model of selected parts. Continued modeling on
deactivated sheet metal parts will not be represented in the flat pattern or
the table.

## sheetMetalFlange

SMFlangeAlignment enum

Describes the position of a virtual sharp with respect to "flange face",
defined as the face that corresponds to the edge selected for flange in the
underlying sheet.

For Middle alignment, the virtual sharp at the intersection of the existing
sheet and the sheet that corresponds to the flange wall, lies in the middle of
the flange face.

For Inner alignment, the virtual sharp at the intersection of the planes
defined by the faces of the solid to the interior of the bend, lies coincident
with the edge of the flange face closest to the bend.

For Outer alignment, the virtual sharp at the intersection of the planes
defined by the faces of the solid to the exterior of the bend, lies coincident
with the edge of the flange face farthest from the bend.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`INNER` |   
`OUTER` |   
`MIDDLE` |   
`BEND` |   
  
SMPartialFlangeChainType enum

Sets the handling for chains of edges while creating a partial flange.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`PER_EDGE` | The partial flange conditions will be applied to the ends of each individual edge.   
`PER_CHAIN` | The partial flange conditions will be applied to the ends of each chain of selected edges.   
  
sheetMetalFlange (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Create sheet metal flanges on selected edges of sheet metal parts. Length of
flange may be defined by distance (as measured from the virtual sharp along
outer edge of wall) or limiting entity. Bend angle may be flipped using the
oppositeDirection flag. When auto-miter is not selected, flange sides are
rotated by miter angle.

## sheetMetalFormed

sheetMetalFormed (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Creates forms of specified dimensions and style, based either on standard
forms, or by user-defined forms. Each form's position and orientation are
specified using sketch points or mate connectors. For sketch points sketch
coordinate system specifies orientation.

## sheetMetalInFlat

SMFlatOp (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Adds or removes material of sheet metal part as specified by faces attached to
its its flat pattern Is the implementation of sheet metal extrude in flat.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `faces`

| `Query`| Faces associated with sheet metal flat, typically sketch faces or
region of sketch in flat  
  
  * `flatOperationType`

| `FlatOperationType`|  
  
SMEdgeBlendImpl (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Applies a requested feature in sheet metal flat, changes definition surfaces
to reflect this and updates sheet metal geometry Used by fillet and chamfer

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| Sheet metal edges or vertices (flat selections are allowed)
associated with vertices in definition  
  
  * `crossSection`

| `FilletCrossSection`|  
  
  * `chamferType`

| `ChamferType`|  _Required if`crossSection` is `CHAMFER`_  
  
  * `width`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`chamferType` is `EQUAL_OFFSETS` or
`OFFSET_ANGLE`._  
  
  * `width1`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`chamferType` is `TWO_OFFSETS`._  
  
  * `width2`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`chamferType` is `TWO_OFFSETS`._  
  
  * `angle`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`chamferType` is `OFFSET_ANGLE`._  
  
  * `oppositeDirection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_  
  
  * `radius`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`crossSection` is `CIRCULAR` or `CONIC` or
`CURVATURE`._  
  
  * `isAsymmetric`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_  
  
  * `flipAsymmetric`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_  
  
  * `otherRadius`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`isAsymmetric` is true._  
  
  * `rho`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Required if`crossSection` is
`CONIC`._  
  
  * `magnitude`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Required if`crossSection` is
`CURVATURE`._  
  
## sheetMetalJoint

sheetMetalJoint (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

sheetMetalJoint feature modifies sheet metal joint by changing its attribute.

## sheetMetalMakeJoint

MakeJointType enum

MakeJointType is a subset of SMJointType to restrict options visible in
sheetMetalMakeJoint

Value| Description  
---|---  
`BEND` |   
`RIP` |   
  
sheetMetalMakeJoint (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Produces a sheet metal joint of type RIP or BEND by extending or trimming
walls of selected edges. Rip is created as an edge joint by default.

## sheetMetalStart

SMProcessType enum

Method of initializing sheet metal model

Value| Description  
---|---  
`CONVERT` |   
`EXTRUDE` |   
`THICKEN` |   
  
SMCornerStrategyType enum

Default corner relief style setting

Value| Description  
---|---  
`SIZED_RECTANGLE` |   
`RECTANGLE` |   
`SIZED_ROUND` |   
`ROUND` |   
`CLOSED` |   
`SIMPLE` |   
  
SMBendStrategyType enum

Default bend relief style setting

Value| Description  
---|---  
`RECTANGLE` |   
`OBROUND` |   
`TEAR` |   
  
SMBendCalculationType enum

Bend calculation setting

Value| Description  
---|---  
`K_FACTOR` |   
`BEND_ALLOWANCE` |   
`BEND_DEDUCTION` |   
  
CORNER_RELIEF_SCALE_BOUNDS const

Corner relief scale bounds

BEND_RELIEF_DEPTH_SCALE_BOUNDS const

Bend relief depth scale bounds

BEND_RELIEF_WIDTH_SCALE_BOUNDS const

Bend relief width scale bounds

FLIP_DIRECTION_UP_MANIPULATOR_NAME const

Manipulator name for the "flip direction up" manipulator

sheetMetalModelParameters (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
predicate

A predicate containing the parameters required to define all parameters for a
sheet metal model.

sheetMetalStart (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Create and activate a sheet metal model by converting existing parts,
extruding sketch curves or thickening. All operations on an active sheet metal
model will automatically be represented in the flat pattern and the table.
Sheet metal models may consist of multiple parts. Multiple sheet metal models
can be active.

convertExistingPart (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Convert an existing body into a sheet metal part. Definition should include
all parameters from `sheetMetalModelParameters`.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `partToConvert`

| `Query`| The body to convert.  
  
  * `facesToExclude`

| `Query`| Input faces to exclude from the sheet metal model.  
  
  * `bendEdges`

| `Query`| Edges to represent as bends in the sheet metal model. All other
nonlaminar edges will be converted to rips.  
  
  * `clearance`

| `ValueWithUnits`| Clearance from input.  
  
  * `bendsIncluded`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| If `true`, bends will be
included in clearance calculations.  
  
## sheetMetalTab

sheetMetalTab (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature adding tabs to parallel sheet metal faces.

## sheetMetalUtils

defineSheetMetalFeature (feature is
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function), defaults is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)

Exposes sheet metal definition sheet body to the queries within feature.

updateSheetMetalGeometry (context is Context, id is Id, args is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Based on current state of sheet metal definition sheet body update solid
bodies

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`args` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| sheet metal definition entities changed (or attributes changed) in
this feature  
  
  * `deletedAttributes`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| associated attributes of deleted
sheet metal definition entities  
  
  * `associatedChanges`

| `Query`| sheet metal definition entities representing the change of this
feature  
  
SMThicknessDirection enum

Direction of material from definition body. For old models (before
V629_SM_MODEL_FRONT_N_BACK) It is BOTH, for new models FRONT/BACK depends on
oppositeDirection in sheetMetalStart

Value| Description  
---|---  
`BOTH` |   
`FRONT` |   
`BACK` |   
  
setCylindricalBendAttribute (context is Context, face is Query, frontThickness
is ValueWithUnits, backThickness is ValueWithUnits, attributeId is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))

Set a bend attribute on a cylindrical face

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`face` | `Query`| face to set bend attribute on   
`attributeId` | `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| id of new bend attribute   
  
annotateSmSurfaceBodies (context is Context, id is Id, args is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), objectCount is
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)) returns
[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)

Assign SMAttributes to topology of sheet metal definition sheet body

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`args` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `surfaceBodies`

| `Query`|  
  
  * `bendEdgesAndFaces`

| `Query`|  
  
  * `specialRadiiBends`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| array of pairs "(edge, bendRadius)"  
  
  * `defaultRadius`

| `ValueWithUnits`| bend radius to be applied to edges in bendEdgesAndFaces  
  
  * `controlsThickness`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  
  
  * `thickness`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  
  
  * `defaultCornerReliefScale`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  
  
  * `defaultRoundReliefDiameter`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  
  
  * `defaultSquareReliefWidth`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  
  
  * `defaultBendReliefScale`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  
  
K_FACTOR_BOUNDS const

A `RealBoundSpec` for sheet metal K-factor between 0. and 1., defaulting to
`.45`.

ROLLED_K_FACTOR_BOUNDS const

A `RealBoundSpec` for rolled sheet metal K-factor between 0. and 1.,
defaulting to `.5`.

SM_MINIMAL_CLEARANCE_BOUNDS const

A `LengthBoundSpec` for minimal clearance of sheet metal rips

SM_BEND_RADIUS_BOUNDS const

A `LengthBoundSpec` for bend radius in sheet metal features

SM_THICKNESS_BOUNDS const

A `LengthBoundSpec` for thickness in sheet metal features. default to
`(1/16)"` (i.e. steel)

SM_RELIEF_SIZE_BOUNDS const

A `LengthBoundSpec` for relief size, corners or bend relief, in sheet metal
features.

partitionSheetMetalParts (context is Context, allParts is Query)

Partitions allParts into non-sheet metal parts and sheet metal parts. To
preserve existing behavior of code the returned non-sm query is exactly the
same as what is passed in for non-sm cases and a query is returned for them.
The sheet metal results will usually be iterated through and so are returned
as a map with the keys being the sheet metal ID and the values being the parts
associated with that model.

See also

`separateSheetMetalQueries`

getActiveSheetMetalId (context is Context, query is Query)

Get the first id of active sheet metal model the entities of query belong to.

getModelParameters (context is Context, model is Query) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Extract sheet metal model parameters in a convenient form

separateSheetMetalQueries (context is Context, targets is Query) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Separates queries which are part of an active sheet metal model (either in the
folded model or the flat pattern).

See also

`partitionSheetMetalParts`

Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `sheetMetalQueries`

| `Query`| `targets` which are part of an active sheet metal model  
  
  * `nonSheetMetalQueries`

| `Query`| `targets` which are not part of an active sheet metal model  
  
sheetMetalExtendSheetBodyCall (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Wrapper around opExtendSheetBody used in sheet metal operations to handle
remapping of cornerBreak data

sheetMetalEdgeChangeCall (context is Context, id is Id, edges is Query,
definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Wrapper around opEdgeChange used in sheet metal operations to handle remapping
of cornerBreak data

getOwnerSMModel (context is Context, selection is Query) returns
[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)

Returns an array of sm models associated with selection in a way that works
outside of sheet metal features.

getSMCorrespondingInPart (context is Context, selection is Query, entityType
is EntityType) returns Query

Returns a query for all sheet metal part entities of entityType related to the
input sheet metal model entities.

collectCornerBreakTracking (context is Context, bodies is Query) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Collect information before adding material which may merge sheet metal walls.
The map returned by this function should be passed directly into
`remapCornerBreaks` after making the desired geometry changes.

Only walls which have broken corners are tracked.

Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `wallIdToPersistentWall`

| `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| a map from wall id to a tracked query
for the wall  
  
  * `wallIdToVerticesWithBreaks`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| a map from wall id to an array of
tracked vertices which break the wall  
  
remapCornerBreaks (context is Context, cornerBreakTracking is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Remap corner breaks on walls whose wall id has changed. Takes the output of
`collectCornerBreakTracking` as `cornerBreakTracking`.

getSelectionsForSMDefinitionEntities (context is Context, definitionEntities
is Query, originalSelections is Query)

Map a group of sheet metal definition entities back to the original entities
selected by the user.

separateByModelVersion (context is Context, targets is Query, version is
FeatureScriptVersionNumber) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Separates queries which are part of an active sheet metal model (either in the
folded model or the flat pattern) with additional separation of active sheet
metal queries based on feature script version of the coresponding sheet metal
model.

See also

`separateSheetMetalQueries`

Return| Type| Description  
---|---|---  
`` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `sheetMetalQueries`

| `Query`| `targets` which are part of an active sheet metal model  
  
  * `nonSheetMetalQueries`

| `Query`| `targets` which are not part of an active sheet metal model  
  
  * `legacyModelQueries`

| `Query`| `targets` which are part of an active sheet metal model with
fsVersion earlier than `version`  
  
  * `newModelQueries`

| `Query`| `targets` which are part of an active sheet metal model with
fsVersion equal or later than `version`  
  
prepareInitialArcSketch (wrapAroundFront is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean), modelParameters is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), innerRadius is ValueWithUnits, angle is
ValueWithUnits) returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Prepare to sketch the initial arc of the hem or flange, starting at the
selected edge and wrapping either around the front of the back of the sheet.
Returns information about arc ids and arc end position.

getDefaultBendReliefWidth (context is Context, model is Query) returns
ValueWithUnits

Returns the width of a default bend relief for a sheet metal model. In the
case of a tear, returns the minimal clearance.

## shell

shell (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an `opShell`.

## splitpart

SplitType enum

Defines whether a `split` should split whole parts, or just faces.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`PART` |   
`FACE` |   
  
splitPart (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an `opSplitPart`.

## sweep

sweep (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an `opSweep`, followed by an `opBoolean`. For simple
sweeps, prefer using `opSweep` directly.

## tag

TagPurpose enum

Defines the kind of entity being tagged in the feature.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`FRAME` | Tag a frame profile with metadata. The metadata will be displayed in the cut list for frames derived from the tagged profile.   
`FORM` | Tag a form with metadata. The metadata will be used for formed features derived from the form.   
  
tag (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Tag an entity with metadata. The metadata will be used for formed and frame
features.

## thicken

thicken (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an `opThicken`, followed by an `opBoolean`. For simple
thickens, prefer using `opThicken` directly.

## transformCopy

TransformType enum

Defines how a the transform for a `transform` feature should be specified.
SCALE_UNIFORMLY actually also supports non-uniform scaling.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`TRANSLATION_ENTITY` |   
`TRANSLATION_DISTANCE` |   
`TRANSLATION_3D` |   
`TRANSFORM_MATE_CONNECTORS` |   
`ROTATION` |   
`COPY` |   
`SCALE_UNIFORMLY` |   
  
transform (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Move and/or rotate bodies or mate connectors with a single `Transform`,
constructed with input according to the selected `TransformType`.

Internally, performs an `opTransform` when not copying, and an `opPattern`
when copying. For simple transforms, prefer calling `opTransform` or
`opPattern` directly.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| The bodies or mate connectors to transform. An error is thrown if
anything else is included.  EXAMPLE

> `qCreatedBy(id + "extrude1", EntityType.BODY)`  
  
  * `transformType`

| `TransformType`| Defines how the transform type should be specified.
EXAMPLE

> `TransformType.TRANSLATION_3D`  
  
  * `dx`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`transformType` is
`TransformType.TRANSLATION_3D`_A value with length units specifying the
distance to move in the world `x` direction.  EXAMPLE

> `1 * inch`  
  
  * `dy`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`transformType` is
`TransformType.TRANSLATION_3D`_A value with length units specifying the
distance to move in the world `y` direction.  EXAMPLE

> `1 * inch`  
  
  * `dz`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`transformType` is
`TransformType.TRANSLATION_3D`_A value with length units specifying the
distance to move in the world `z` direction.  EXAMPLE

> `1 * inch`  
  
  * `transformLine`

| `Query`|  _Required if`transformType` is
`TransformType.TRANSLATION_ENTITY`_A `Query` for either a single line or a
pair of points, specifying the direction and distance to transform.  
  
  * `oppositeDirectionEntity`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Required if`transformType` is
`TransformType.TRANSLATION_ENTITY`_EXAMPLE

> `true` to flip the transform direction.  
  
  * `transformAxis`

| `Query`|  _Required if`transformType` is `TransformType.ROTATION`_A `Query`
for a line, cylinder, etc. to specify the transform direction.  
  
  * `angle`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`transformType` is `TransformType.ROTATION`_A
value with angle units specifying the angle to rotate.  
  
  * `transformDirection`

| `Query`|  _Required if`transformType` is
`TransformType.TRANSLATION_DISTANCE`_A `Query` for either a single line or a
pair of points, specifying the direction to transform.  
  
  * `distance`

| `ValueWithUnits`|  _Required if`transformType` is
`TransformType.TRANSLATION_DISTANCE`_A value with length units specifying the
distance to move.  
  
  * `oppositeDirection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Required if`transformType` is
`TransformType.TRANSLATION_DISTANCE` or `TransformType.ROTATION`_EXAMPLE

> `true` to transform in the opposite direction.  
  
  * `uniform`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ True if the scale is
uniform in all directions (default)  
  
  * `scale`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Required if`transformType` is
`TransformType.SCALE_UNIFORMLY` and `uniform` is true_A positive real number
specifying the scale factor.  
  
  * `scalePoint`

| `Query`|  _Required if`transformType` is `TransformType.SCALE_UNIFORMLY`_A
point specifying the center of the scale or a mate connector specifying the
coordinate system for a non-uniform scale.  
  
  * `scaleX`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Required if`transformType` is
`TransformType.SCALE_UNIFORMLY` and `uniform` is false_  
  
  * `scaleY`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Required if`transformType` is
`TransformType.SCALE_UNIFORMLY` and `uniform` is false_  
  
  * `scaleZ`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`|  _Required if`transformType` is
`TransformType.SCALE_UNIFORMLY` and `uniform` is false_  
  
  * `baseConnector`

| `Query`|  _Required if`transformType` is
`TransformType.TRANSFORM_MATE_CONNECTORS`_The mate connector to transform
from.  
  
  * `destinationConnector`

| `Query`|  _Required if`transformType` is
`TransformType.TRANSFORM_MATE_CONNECTORS`_The mate connector to transform to.  
  
  * `oppositeDirectionMateAxis`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Required if`transformType` is
`TransformType.TRANSFORM_MATE_CONNECTORS`_  
  
  * `secondaryAxisType`

| `MateConnectorAxisType`|  _Required if`transformType` is
`TransformType.TRANSFORM_MATE_CONNECTORS`_  
  
  * `makeCopy`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Required if`transformType` is
not `TransformType.COPY`_EXAMPLE

> `true` to keep the original bodies.  
  
copyPart (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

**Deprecated:** _Use`opPattern`, or the `transform` feature instead. _

## variable

VariableMode enum

Whether the variable is measured or assigned.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`ASSIGNED` |   
`MEASURED` |   
  
VariableMeasurementMode enum

Whether to measure distance or length.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`DISTANCE` |   
`LENGTH` |   
`DIAMETER` |   
  
AxisWithCustom enum

Axis selection

Value| Description  
---|---  
`DISTANCE` |   
`X` |   
`Y` |   
`Z` |   
`CUSTOM` |   
  
VariableMinMaxSelection enum

Min or max selection

Value| Description  
---|---  
`MINIMUM` |   
`MAXIMUM` |   
  
assignVariable (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing a `setVariable` allowing a user to assign a FeatureScript
value to a context variable. This variable may be retrieved within a feature
by calling `getVariable`, or in a Part Studio using `#` syntax (e.g. `#foo`)
inside any parameter which allows an expression (including the `value`
parameter of another variable!)

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `mode`

| `VariableMode`| Whether the variable is measured or assigned.  
  
  * `name`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| Must be an identifier.  
  
  * `description`

| `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| Description of the variable.
Maximum length of 256 characters.  
  
  * `variableType`

| `VariableType`| The type of variable. If it is not ANY, the value is
restricted to be a length, angle, or number and is passed through the
`lengthValue`, `angleValue`, or `numberValue` field, respectively.  
  
  * `lengthValue`

| `ValueWithUnits`| Used if `variableType` is `LENGTH`.  
  
  * `angleValue`

| `ValueWithUnits`| Used if `variableType` is `ANGLE`.  
  
  * `numberValue`

| `[number](/FsDoc/variables.html#number)`| Used if `variableType` is
`NUMBER`.  
  
  * `anyValue`

| | Used if `variableType` is `ANY`. Can be any immutable FeatureScript value, including a length, an array, or a function.   
  
  * `measurementMode`

| `VariableMeasurementMode`| Whether to measure distance, length, or diameter.  
  
  * `entityCouple`

| `Query`| Query for distance mode, containing two entities to measure the
distance between.  
  
  * `minmax`

| `VariableMinMaxSelection`| Whether to measure the minimum or maximum
distance.  
  
  * `axis`

| `AxisWithCustom`| Axis to measure distance along.  
  
  * `extendEntities`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Extend selected planes and lines
out to infinity. Incompatible with maximum.  
  
  * `measureFromAxis`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Measure from the axis of
geometry with an axis, rather than from the edge. Incompatible with maximum.  
  
  * `componentSelector`

| `AxisWithCustom`| Select an axis to measure along.  
  
  * `customDirection`

| `Query`| If componentSelector is CUSTOM, a query containing geometry with a
directon to measure along.  
  
  * `lengthEntities`

| `Query`| Query for length mode, containing entities to measure the length
of.  
  
  * `radius`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether to measure the radius
rather than the diameter.  
  
  * `diameterEntity`

| `Query`| Query for diameter mode, containing an entity to measure the
diameter of.  
  
verifyVariableNameIsValid (name is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string),
faultyParameter is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))

Throws an error if `name` is not a valid identifier.

verifyVariableName (context is Context, name is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), faultyParameter is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))

Throws an error if `name` is not a valid identifier or is used by a query
variable.

makeLookupFunction (context is Context, id is Id) returns
[function](/FsDoc/variables.html#function)

Make a function to look up variables from the given context. Used in generated
part studio code.

measureDistance (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))
returns [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Measure the distance between two entities.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entities`

| `Query`| a query containing two entities to measure the distance between.  
  
  * `measureFromAxis`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ measure from the
axis of the selected geometry, if an axis is available. Incompatible with the
`maximum` option. Defaults to `false`.  
  
  * `customDirection`

| `Query`|  _Optional_ measure the distance between two entities along a
direction selected by this query.  
  
  * `extendEntities`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ extend the entities
out to infinity. Incompatible with the `maximum` option. Defaults to `false`.  
  
  * `maximum`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ measure the maximum
distance between the selected entities, instead of the minimum by default.
Defaults to `false`.  
  
selectDistanceComponent (distanceMap is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map),
componentSelector is AxisWithCustom)

Returns appropriate entry in distanceMap returned from measureDistance given
the selected AxisWithCustom.

measureDiameter (context is Context, arg is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Measure the diameter (or radius) of the selected entity.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`arg` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `entity`

| `Query`| a query containing an entity of GeometryType.CIRCLE,
GeometryType.ARC, GeometryType.CYLINDER, or GeometryType.SPHERE.  
  
  * `radius`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`|  _Optional_ measure the radius
instead of the diameter. Defaults to `false`.  
  
## wrap

WrapResultType enum

Defines what type of output the Wrap feature should produce.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`SOLID` | The wrap operation will produce thickened solid bodies.   
`SURFACE` | The wrap operation will produce surface bodies.   
`IMPRINT` | The wrap operation will imprint edges onto the destination face.   
  
wrap (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature performing an `opWrap`.

## enums

## annotationdimensiondirection

AnnotationDimensionDirection enum

Used to specify the measurement direction for annotation dimensions.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`DEFAULT` |   
`GLOBAL_X` |   
`GLOBAL_Y` |   
`SPECIFIC` |   
  
## blendcontroltype

BlendControlType enum

Specifies the controlled quantitiy for fillet operation.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`RADIUS` |   
`WIDTH` |   
  
## bodydraftconcaverepairtype

BodyDraftConcaveRepairType enum

Specifies how to repair miter at concave corners.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`NONE` |   
`RADIUS` |   
`MIX` |   
  
## bodydraftcornertype

BodyDraftCornerType enum

Specifies how to fill the gap between adjacent tapered faces.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`EXTEND` |   
`PLANE` |   
  
## bodydraftmatchfacetype

BodyDraftMatchFaceType enum

Specifies how to match drafted faces.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`TANGENT_TO_FACE` |   
`REFERENCE_EDGE` |   
  
## bodydraftselectiontype

BodyDraftSelectionType enum

Specifies the topology type for body draft.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`PARTS` |   
`FACES` |   
`EDGES` |   
  
## booleanoperationtype

BooleanOperationType enum

See `opBoolean`.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`UNION` |   
`SUBTRACTION` |   
`INTERSECTION` |   
`SUBTRACT_COMPLEMENT` |   
  
## boundingtype

BoundingType enum

Specifies how an extrude should terminate.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`BLIND` | Extrude a specific distance.   
`UP_TO_NEXT` | Extrude up to the next solid body or surface body in the context.   
`UP_TO_SURFACE` | Extrude up to the specified face, construction plane, or surface body.   
`UP_TO_BODY` | Extrude up to the specified solid body.   
`UP_TO_VERTEX` | Extrude up to the specified vertex.   
`THROUGH_ALL` | Extrude an unspecified distance, guaranteed to be further in the extrude direction than any other solid or surface in the context.   
`UP_TO_FACE` |   
  
## chamfermethod

ChamferMethod enum

See `opChamfer`.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`FACE_OFFSET` |   
`APEX_RANGE` |   
  
## chamfertype

ChamferType enum

See `opChamfer`.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`EQUAL_OFFSETS` |   
`TWO_OFFSETS` |   
`OFFSET_ANGLE` |   
`RAW_OFFSET` |   
  
## clashtype

ClashType enum

Specifies the class of intersection between two bodies. *

See also

`evCollision`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`NONE` | No intersection.   
`INTERFERE` | Bounding topologies interfere.   
`EXISTS` | Vertex or edge intersection.   
`ABUT_NO_CLASS` | Bounding topologies abut.   
`ABUT_TOOL_IN_TARGET` | Bounding tool abuts bounding target on inside.   
`ABUT_TOOL_OUT_TARGET` | Bounding tool abuts bounding target on outside.   
`TARGET_IN_TOOL` | Target completely inside tool.   
`TOOL_IN_TARGET` | Tool completely inside target.   
  
## constrainttype

ConstraintType enum

Specifies a type of sketch constraint.

See also

`skConstraint`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`NONE` |   
`COINCIDENT` |   
`PARALLEL` |   
`VERTICAL` |   
`HORIZONTAL` |   
`PERPENDICULAR` |   
`CONCENTRIC` |   
`MIRROR` |   
`MIDPOINT` |   
`TANGENT` |   
`EQUAL` |   
`LENGTH` |   
`DISTANCE` |   
`ANGLE` |   
`RADIUS` |   
`NORMAL` |   
`FIX` |   
`PROJECTED` |   
`OFFSET` |   
`CIRCULAR_PATTERN` |   
`PIERCE` |   
`LINEAR_PATTERN` |   
`MAJOR_DIAMETER` |   
`MINOR_DIAMETER` |   
`QUADRANT` |   
`DIAMETER` |   
`SILHOUETTED` |   
`CENTERLINE_DIMENSION` |   
`INTERSECTED` |   
`RHO` |   
`EQUAL_CURVATURE` |   
`BEZIER_DEGREE` |   
`FREEZE` |   
  
## coordinatesysteminferenceselectionfilter

CoordinateSystemInferenceSelectionFilter enum

Specifies the filter type when requesting inference mate connectors.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`NONE` |   
`HOLE_GEOMETRY` |   
  
## curveextensionendcondition

CurveExtensionEndCondition enum

Specifies the end condition for curve extension.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`BLIND` |   
`UP_TO_ENTITY` |   
  
## curveextensionshape

CurveExtensionShape enum

Specifies the shape of curve extension.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`CURVATURE` |   
`TANGENT` |   
  
## curvepatternorientationtype

CurvePatternOrientationType enum

Specifies the orientation type of patterned entities in curve pattern.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`DEFAULT` | Patterned entities will be reoriented tangent to curve (default orientation).   
`LOCK_FACES` | Lock the orientation of patterned entities normal to a set of faces.   
`KEEP_ORIENTATION` | Match the orientation of patterned entities with the seed entity orientation.   
  
## curvetype

CurveType enum

The subset of `GeometryType` which applies to 1-dimensional entities.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`CIRCLE` |   
`LINE` |   
`OTHER` |   
`ELLIPSE` |   
`SPLINE` |   
  
## debugcolor

DebugColor enum

Color choices for the `debug` function

Value| Description  
---|---  
`RED` |   
`GREEN` |   
`BLUE` |   
`CYAN` |   
`MAGENTA` |   
`YELLOW` |   
`BLACK` |   
`ORANGE` |   
  
## dimensionalignment

DimensionAlignment enum

Specifies how a constraint between lines or axes (such as parallel or
coincident) should align the two constrained axes.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`UNSPECIFIED` |   
`ALIGNED` |   
`ANTI_ALIGNED` |   
  
## drafttype

DraftType enum

Specifies the type of draft to execute.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`REFERENCE_ENTITY` | Draft faces holding a specific reference entity constant for each face.   
`REFERENCE_SURFACE` | Draft faces relative to a single neutral surface.   
  
## edgeconvexitytype

EdgeConvexityType enum

Specifies how two faces join at a given edge. This is a function of the
interior angle between the adjoining surfaces, measured inside the owner body.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`CONVEX` | The interior angle is less than 180 degrees along the whole edge.   
`CONCAVE` | The interior angle is greater than 180 degrees along the whole edge.   
`SMOOTH` | The interior angle is equal to 180 degrees along the whole edge.   
`VARIABLE` | None of the above, i.e. the edge convexity varies along the edge.   
  
## edgetopology

EdgeTopology enum

Specifies the topology of an edge entity.

Can be used in a filter on a query parameter to only allow certain selections:

    
    
     annotation { "Name" : "Surface edges", "Filter" : EntityType.EDGE && EdgeTopology.ONE_SIDED } definition.edges is Query; 
    

See also

`qEdgeTopologyFilter`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`WIRE` | edge without adjacent faces, belonging to a wire body.   
`ONE_SIDED` | An edge adjacent to one face (e.g. the edge of a surface extrude).   
`TWO_SIDED` | An edge which joins two faces (e.g. the edge of a cube).   
  
## entityinferencetype

EntityInferenceType enum

Specifies how a mate connector's coordinate system is defined with respect to
an entity.

See also

`mateConnector`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`POINT` | Place a mate connector at a vertex with the world coordinate system, or at the tip of a conical face with its Z-axis along the cone axis.   
`CENTROID` | Place a mate connector at the centroid of a face, with its Z-axis along the face normal at that point.   
`CENTER` | Place a mate connector at the center of a circular or elliptical edge with its Z-axis along the normal of the plane which the edge lies on, or at the center of a sphere with the world coordinate system.   
`MID_POINT` | Place a mate connector at the midpoint of an edge, with its Z-axis along the edge.   
`TOP_AXIS_POINT` | Place a mate connector at the projection of the top extreme of a cylindrical or other revolved face onto the central axis of that face, with its Z-axis along the central axis.   
`MID_AXIS_POINT` | Place a mate connector at the projection of the point midway betwen the top and bottom extremes of a cylindrical or other revolved face onto the central axis of that face, with its Z-axis along the central axis.   
`BOTTOM_AXIS_POINT` | Place a mate connector at the projection of the bottom extreme of a cylindrical or other revolved face onto the central axis of that face, with   
`LOOP_CENTER` | Place a mate connector at the center of a loop of planar edges, with its Z-axis along the normal of the plane. Only one edge of the loop needs to be selected for this inference.   
`VIRTUAL_SHARP` | Place a mate connector at locations along a loop of planar edges where a single nonlinear edge sits between two nonparallel lines and is tangent to both. The mate origin will be the projected intersection of the two lines, with its Z-axis along the normal of the plane.   
  
## extendendtype

ExtendEndType enum

See `opExtendSheetBody`.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`EXTEND_BLIND` |   
`EXTEND_TO_TARGET` |   
  
## extendsheetshapetype

ExtendSheetShapeType enum

See `opExtendSheetBody`.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`LINEAR` |   
`SOFT` |   
  
## faceblendcrosssection

FaceBlendCrossSection enum

Specifies the type of cross section of the blend.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`ROLLING_BALL` |   
`SWEPT_PROFILE` |   
  
## faceblendcrosssectionshape

FaceBlendCrossSectionShape enum

Specifies the cross sectional control for a fillet operation.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`CIRCULAR` |   
`CONIC` |   
`CURVATURE` |   
`CHAMFER` |   
  
## faceblendpropagation

FaceBlendPropagation enum

Specifies the propagation type of the blend.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`TANGENT` |   
`ADJACENT` |   
`CUSTOM` |   
  
## faceblendtrimtype

FaceBlendTrimType enum

Specifies how to trim the created blend.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`WALLS` |   
`SHORT` |   
`LONG` |   
`NO_TRIM` |   
  
## facecurvecreationtype

FaceCurveCreationType enum

Specifies type of curve on face.

See also

`opCreateCurvesOnFace`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`DIR1_ISO` | Iso-parameter curves in primary direction   
`DIR2_ISO` | Iso-parameter curves in secondary direction.   
`DIR1_AUTO_SPACED_ISO` | Equally spaced iso-parameter curves in primary direction.   
`DIR2_AUTO_SPACED_ISO` | Equally spaced iso-parameter curves in secondary direction.   
  
## faulttype

FaultType enum

Description of possible faults.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`NO_FAULT` |   
`CORRUPT_ENTITY` |   
`BODY_INVALID_IDENTIFIERS` |   
`BODY_INSIDE_OUT` |   
`EDGE_OPEN` |   
`EDGE_BAD_VERTEX` |   
`EDGE_REVERSED` |   
`VERTICES_TOUCH` |   
`WIRE_INTERSECT` |   
`ENTITY_INVALID` |   
`FACE_BAD_VERTEX` |   
`FACE_BAD_EDGE` |   
`FACE_INTERSECTS_EDGE` |   
`CHECKING_FAILED` |   
`FACE_FACE_INTERSECTION` |   
`SELF_INTERSECTION` |   
`ENTITY_NOT_G1` |   
`BOUNDING_BOX_VIOLATION` |   
`NO_GEOMETRY` |   
`UNDEFINED_FACE_SENSE` |   
`TOLERANCE_TOO_SMALL` |   
`EDGES_TOUCH` |   
`DEGENERATE_GEOMETRY` |   
`GENERAL_FAULT` |   
  
## featuredimensiontype

FeatureDimensionType enum

Used to specify the type of a feature dimension, as in setDimensionedEntities.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`DISTANCE` |   
`ANGLE` |   
`RADIUS` |   
`DIAMETER` |   
`AXIS_DISTANCE` |   
  
## fieldweldflag

FieldWeldFlag enum

Enum to determine whether we should display no flag, upper flag or lower flag.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`NONE` |   
`UPPER` |   
`LOWER` |   
  
## filletcrosssection

FilletCrossSection enum

Specifies the cross sectional control for a fillet operation.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`CIRCULAR` |   
`CONIC` |   
`CURVATURE` |   
`CHAMFER` |   
  
## fittolerancetables

getFitToleranceLimits (nominalSize is ValueWithUnits, standard is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), toleranceClass is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string), isHoleBasis is
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)) returns
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)

Retrieves fit tolerance limits for a given nominal size, tolerance class, and
basis.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`nominalSize` | `ValueWithUnits`| The nominal size with units for which the fit tolerance limits are required.   
`standard` | `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| The standard of the fit tolerance table ("ANSI" or "ISO").   
`toleranceClass` | `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| The tolerance class as a string.   
`isHoleBasis` | `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Indicates whether the basis of the tolerance class is hole or shaft.   
Return type| Description  
---|---  
`[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`| A map containing the fit tolerance limits.
Returns an empty map if no suitable tolerance limits are found.  
  
## fixedparameterposition

FixedParameterPosition enum

Specifies where a constraint should be resolved FIXED_AT_START or FIXED_AT_END
will fix the constraint to coincide with the start or end of parametric
curves. FIXED_ON_CURVE will fix the help point.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`FIXED_AT_START` |   
`FIXED_AT_END` |   
`FIXED_ON_CURVE` |   
`FREE` |   
  
## geometriccontinuity

GeometricContinuity enum

Specifies the level of geometric continuity.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`G0` |   
`G1` |   
`G2` |   
  
## holepositionreference

HolePositionReference enum

For a `HoleProfile`, a reference point along the hole axis to which the
`position` of the profile is relative. To calculate these references, the
cylinder of the hole is intersected with the `targets` of the hole. If the
hole cylinder encounters a slanted or otherwise irregular face at the
intersection with the target, the reference may by a range rather than a
single point. Users may specify that they want the end of this range by using
a `holeProfile`, or the beginning of this range by using a
`holeProfileBeforeReference`; or they may control this behavior directly by
setting the `beforeReference` flag of the `HoleProfile`.

Typically, the beginning of the reference range should be used for the first
profile of the hole, and the end of the reference range should be used for the
rest of the profiles of the hole. Using the beginning of the reference range
for the first profile ensures that when the hole tool is cut from a target
with a slanted or otherwise irregular entrance face, the first profile is far
back enough to ensure that no undesirable overhang is left behind on the
target, preventing the fastener from entering the hole. Using the end of the
reference range for the rest of the profiles ensures that any nominal
distances are measured from where the hole cylinder fully enters the part. As
an example of both of these concepts, set the first two profiles of a
`HoleDefinition` as a `holeProfileBeforeReference` referencing `TARGET_START`
with a `position` of 0 inches, and a `holeProfile` referencing `TARGET_START`
with a `position` of 2 inches, respectively. If this layout of profiles is
used against a target that has a slanted entrance face, the first profile will
be placed right where the cylinder first intersects the part, ensuring that
there is no overhang when the hole tool is subtracted from the target. The
second profile will be placed 2 inches from where the hole cylinder fully
enters the target, such that the request for the hole to be 2 inches deep is
understood as the hole having a full two inches of depth in the target,
exluding the area where the hole is only partially cut into the target.
Notably, to accomplish this the first and second profiles are placed more than
two inches apart.

When calculating references, any intersection which is fully behind the
`origin` of the axis `Line` (i.e. the axis point) is always ignored. Range
intersections where the end of the range is ahead of the axis point but the
start of the range is behind the axis point are not ignored.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`AXIS_POINT` | When calling `opHole`, the user will supply one or more `axes` defining where the holes are to be placed. When using this reference, the `position` of the profile will be in reference to the `origin` of the axis `Line` of the hole.   
`TARGET_START` | When using this reference, the `position` of the profile will be in reference to the closest intersection of the hole cylinder with any target.   
`LAST_TARGET_START` | For each target, find the first intersection of the hole cylinder into the target. When using this reference, the `position` of the profile will be in reference to the furthest of those intersections. Notably, this means that if certain targets are geometrically constructed such that the hole cylinder enters and exits the target multiple times, only the first of the entrances into the target is considered.   
`LAST_TARGET_END` | When using this reference, the `position` of the profile will be in reference to the furthest exit of the hole cylinder from any target.   
`UP_TO_ENTITY` |   
`UP_TO_NEXT` |   
`LAST_TARGET_START_IN_DEPTH` | For each target, find the first intersection of the hole cylinder into the target. When using this reference, the `position` of the profile will be in reference to the furthest of those intersections within the hole depth.   
  
## holeprofiletype

HoleProfileType enum

Describes how a `HoleProfile` is constructed in relation to its
`HolePositionReference`.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`POSITIONED` | See `holeProfile`.   
`MATCHED` | See `matchedHoleProfile`.   
  
## icon

Icon enum

Specifies an icon resource available in Onshape.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`X_LINEAR_LIMIT_MIN` | Minimum X linear limit.   
`X_LINEAR_LIMIT_MAX` | Maximum X linear limit.   
`Y_LINEAR_LIMIT_MIN` | Minimum Y linear limit.   
`Y_LINEAR_LIMIT_MAX` | Maximum Y linear limit.   
`Z_LINEAR_LIMIT_MIN` | Minimum Z linear limit.   
`Z_LINEAR_LIMIT_MAX` | Maximum Z linear limit.   
`X_ROTATION_LIMIT_MIN` | Minimum X rotation limit.   
`X_ROTATION_LIMIT_MAX` | Maximum X rotation limit.   
`Y_ROTATION_LIMIT_MIN` | Minimum Y rotation limit.   
`Y_ROTATION_LIMIT_MAX` | Maximum Y rotation limit.   
`Z_ROTATION_LIMIT_MIN` | Minimum Z rotation limit.   
`Z_ROTATION_LIMIT_MAX` | Maximum Z rotation limit.   
`CONE_ANGLE_LIMIT` | Cone angle limit.   
`HOLE_DIAMETER` | Hole diameter.   
`HOLE_DEPTH` | Hole depth.   
`HOLE_DRILL_ANGLE` | Hole drill angle.   
`HOLE_COUNTERBORE_DIAMETER` | Hole counterbore diameter.   
`HOLE_COUNTERBORE_DEPTH` | Hole counterbore depth.   
`HOLE_COUNTERSINK_DIAMETER` | Hole countersink diameter.   
`HOLE_TAP_DIAMETER` | Hole tap diameter.   
`HOLE_COUNTERSINK_ANGLE` | Hole countersink angle.   
`HOLE_TAPPED_DEPTH` | Hole tapped depth.   
`HOLE_TAP_CLEARANCE` | Hole tap clearance.   
`ALONG_X` | Along the X-axis.   
`ALONG_Y` | Along the Y-axis.   
`ALONG_Z` | Along the Z-axis.   
`DOF_TRANSLATION` | Degrees of freedom translation.   
`DOF_ROTATION` | Degrees of freedom rotation.   
`DIHEDRAL_LOW` | Dihedral low.   
`DIHEDRAL_HIGH` | Dihedral high.   
  
## lofttopology

LoftTopology enum

Specifies topology option for opLoft.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`MINIMAL` | Minimal number of faces created.   
`COLUMNS` | One face is created for each matching set of profile segments.   
`GRID` | Faces created for COLUMNS option are split at each profile.   
  
## lookupTablePath

LookupTablePath type

A `LookupTablePath` identifies a map of keys into a multi-level table.

The fields on a LookupTablePath depend on its related LookupTable.

Value| Type| Description | `LookupTablePath` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
---|---|---  
  
  * `entityType`

| `EntityType`|  _Optional_  
  
canBeLookupTablePath (value) predicate

Typecheck for `LookupTablePath`

lookupTablePath (source is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
LookupTablePath

Creates a `lookupTablePath`.

lookupTableEvaluate (expression is [string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string))
returns ValueWithUnits

Convert a table expression in string form into a ValueWithUnits.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`expression` | `[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)`| Currently the following forms are supported:  EXAMPLE

> `{number} <*> {units}`

EXAMPLE

> `{number}/{number} <*> {units}`

EXAMPLE

> `{number} <+> {number}/{number} <*> {units}` Where `{number} is <-><.>nnn>`
> or <->inf

EXAMPLE

> `{} indicate an entity, <> indicate the contents are optional` spaces
> between entities are optional unless they are required to separate entities.  
  
lookupTableFixExpression (expression is
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)) returns
[string](/FsDoc/variables.html#string)

insert plus sign and parenthesis as needed to make a valid expression

getLookupTable (table is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), path is
LookupTablePath)

Find a terminal/content table from a path and convert into expression/value
form

lookupTableGetValue (value) returns ValueWithUnits

Extract the value portion of expression/value maps or evaluate expressions.
value maybe an expression or a value with units

isLookupTableViolated (definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map), table
is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)) returns
[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)

Test if the current definition violates the table.

## manipulatordragtypeenum

ManipulatorDragTypeEnum enum

Specifies the type of manipulator being dragged.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`NONE` |   
`LINEAR_X` |   
`LINEAR_Y` |   
`LINEAR_Z` |   
`PLANAR_XY` |   
`PLANAR_XZ` |   
`PLANAR_YZ` |   
`ROTATION_X` |   
`ROTATION_Y` |   
`ROTATION_Z` |   
`REPOSITION` |   
  
## manipulatorstyleenum

ManipulatorStyleEnum enum

Specifies the style of a manipulator intended to look unique.

See also

`addManipulators`

Value| Description  
---|---  
`DEFAULT` | the standard display of the manipulator. *   
`SECONDARY` | the angular or linear manipulator has two arrow heads. *   
`SIMPLE` | the display of the angular or linear manipulator is simpler. *   
`TANGENTIAL` | the linear manipulator has two smaller arrows around a circular base.   
  
## manipulatortype

ManipulatorType enum

Specifies a specific type of interactive manipulator.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`LINEAR_1D` | A single arrow which can move along a single axis. See `extrude` for an example.   
`LINEAR_3D` | A triad of perpendicular arrows which specify a 3D position. See `transformCopy` for an example.   
`ANGULAR` | A curved arrow, with two radii, which can move along a circumference to specify an angle. See `revolve` for an example.   
`FLIP` | A static arrow which can be clicked to toggle a flip direction. See `extrude` (with BoundingType.THROUGH_ALL) for an example.   
`POINTS` | A series of points which can be selected one at a time.   
`TOGGLE_POINTS` | A series of points which can each be selected individually.   
`TRIAD_FULL` | A triad of perpendicular arrows, planar and angular manipulators.   
  
## mateconnectoraxistype

MateConnectorAxisType enum

Defines what direction the X-axis of a mate connector should face, relative to
the reference defined. Thus, a mate connector defined with `PLUS_Y` will
differ from the selected coordinate system by a 90-degree rotation about that
coordinate system's Z-axis.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`PLUS_X` |   
`PLUS_Y` |   
`MINUS_X` |   
`MINUS_Y` |   
  
## matedoftype

MateDOFType enum

Specifies a single degree of freedom of a mate.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`Tx` | Translation along the X axis.   
`Ty` | Translation along the Y axis.   
`Tz` | Translation along the Z axis.   
`Rz` | Rotation around the Z axis.   
`Ryp` | Rotation around the transformed Y axis from previous transform sequence.   
`Rzp` | Rotation around the transformed z axis from previous transform sequence .   
  
## movecurveboundarytype

MoveCurveBoundaryType enum

Specifies whether to trim or extend the curve.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`TRIM` |   
`EXTEND` |   
  
## offsetcurvetype

OffsetCurveType enum

Defines what kind of offset distance is used in offset curve on face.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`GEODESIC` | The distance is calculated along the faces of the body in which the selected edges lie in.   
`EUCLIDEAN` | The distance is the distance in world coordinates.   
  
## origincreationtype

OriginCreationType enum

Specifies how a mate connector origin is defined, and how many entities define
it.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`ON_ENTITY` |   
`BETWEEN_ENTITIES` |   
  
## partstudioitemtype

PartStudioItemType enum

Enumeration of the types of items that can be selected inside a [Part Studio
reference parameter](/FsDoc/imports.html#part-studio). By default this
parameter allows selecting all of the item types below. It can be filtered by
specifying a union of any number of PartStudioItemTypes (e.g. `"Filter" :
PartStudioItemType.SOLID || PartStudioItemType.ENTIRE_PART_STUDIO`) in the
parameter's annotation.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`SOLID` | A body with `BodyType.SOLID` (i.e. a part in the parts list)   
`SURFACE` | A non-sketch body with `BodyType.SURFACE` (i.e. a surface in the parts list)   
`WIRE` | A non-sketch body with `BodyType.WIRE` (i.e. a curve in the parts list)   
`MESH` | An imported mesh (i.e. a mesh in the parts list)   
`SKETCH` | An entire sketch feature (i.e. all `POINT`, `WIRE`, and `SURFACE` bodies created by the sketch)   
`FLATTENED_SHEET_METAL` | A flattened sheet metal part (available from any Part Studio with sheet metal features)   
`ENTIRE_PART_STUDIO` | The entire Part Studio. Setting this option allows clicking the top item (with the full Part Studio's tumbnail and name), which sets the `partQuery` to `qEverything(EntityType.BODY)`.   
`CONSTRUCTION_PLANE` | A plane created with Plane feature or with `opPlane`  
`COMPOSITE_PART` |   
  
## profilecontrolmode

ProfileControlMode enum

Specifies how a profile should be controlled while sweeping.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`NONE` | No additional profile control.   
`KEEP_ORIENTATION` | Keep the orientation constant.   
`LOCK_FACES` | Lock the sweep operation to a set of faces.   
`LOCK_DIRECTION` | Lock the sweep operation to a direction.:   
  
## projectiontype

ProjectionType enum

See `opDropCurve`.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`DIRECTION` |   
`NORMAL_TO_TARGET` |   
  
## propertytype

PropertyType enum

Defines the type of property that is being applied to a part.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`NAME` |   
`MATERIAL` |   
`APPEARANCE` |   
`DESCRIPTION` |   
`PART_NUMBER` |   
`VENDOR` |   
`PROJECT` |   
`PRODUCT_LINE` |   
`TITLE_1` |   
`TITLE_2` |   
`TITLE_3` |   
`EXCLUDE_FROM_BOM` |   
`CUSTOM` | Requires a custom property id to specify fully.   
`MASS_OVERRIDE` |   
`REVISION` |   
  
## recordpatterntype

RecordPatternType enum

Allows differentiation of patterns in computed data

Value| Description  
---|---  
`NONE` |   
`LINEAR` |   
`CIRCULAR` |   
`CURVE` |   
`TRANSFORM` |   
`MIRROR` |   
`INSTANTIATED` |   
  
## rotationtype

RotationType enum

Specifies an axis for rotation.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`ABOUT_X` |   
`ABOUT_Y` |   
`ABOUT_Z` |   
  
## ruledsurfacecornertype

RuledSurfaceCornerType enum

Describes how a Ruled Surface creates corners.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`SPUN` | Conical corners are created by spinning an edge.   
`EXTENDED` | Ruled surfaces are altered so that they meet at corners.   
`LOFTED` | Curvature continuous lofts are created patching corners.   
`NO_CORNER` | Leave corners open.   
  
## ruledsurfacetype

RuledSurfaceType enum

Describes how a Ruled Surface is defined.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`ANGLE_FROM_FACE` | Ruled surface is perpendicular to reference faces.   
`ALIGNED_WITH_VECTOR` | Ruled surface is in direction of reference direction.   
`ANGLE_FROM_VECTOR` | Ruled surface will meet a reference direction at an angle when viewed from the path tangent direction.   
  
## sectionpart

sectionPart (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Feature creating a section of a part behind a plane. Internally, performs an
`opSplitPart` followed by an `opDeleteBodies`.

Not exposed in the Part Studio UI.

planeSectionPart (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Split a set of parts with a plane and delete all bodies in front of the face.
Unlike sectionPart, bodies which are entirely behind the split plane are
retained. Any bodies not included in the target query are deleted.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `target`

| `Query`| Bodies to be split.  
  
  * `plane`

| `Plane`| Plane that splits the bodies. Everything on the positive z side of
the plane will be removed.  
  
multiplePlaneSectionPart (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Split a set of parts with multiple planes and delete all bodies in front of
the faces.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `target`

| `Query`| Bodies to be split.  
  
  * `sketchPlanes`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| Planes that splits the bodies.
Everything on the positive z side of the planes will be removed.  
  
multiplePlanesSectionTransformedParts (context is Context, id is Id,
definition is [map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

method for processing all part studio parts for assembly for multiple planes
section

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `targets`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| Bodies to be split.  
  
  * `planes`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| Planes that splits the bodies.
Everything on the positive z side of the planes will be removed.  
  
jogSectionPart (context is Context, id is Id, definition is
[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map))

Split a part down a jogged section line and delete all back bodies. Used by
drawings. Needs to be a feature so that drawings created by queries can
resolve. Any bodies not included in the target query are deleted.

Parameter| Type| Additional Info  
---|---|---  
`definition` | `[map](/FsDoc/variables.html#map)`|   
  
  * `target`

| `Query`| Bodies to be split.  
  
  * `sketchPlane`

| `Plane`| Plane that the jog line will be drawn in and extruded normal to.
Everything on the positive x side of the jog line will be removed.  
  
  * `jogPoints`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| Points that the cutting line goes
through in world coordinates.  
  
  * `isPartialSection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether or not it is a partial
section cut.  
  
  * `keepSketches`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether or not sketches will be
kept in the section cut results.  
  
  * `isBrokenOut`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether or not it is a broken-
out section cut.  
  
  * `isCropView`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether or not it is a crop
section cut.  
  
  * `brokenOutPointNumbers`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| Array of the number of spline points
of each broken-out section cut.  
  
  * `brokenOutEndConditions`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| Array of end conditions of each
broken-out section cut.  
  
  * `offsetPoints`

| `[array](/FsDoc/variables.html#array)`| Array of points for offsetting the
section lines.  
  
  * `isAlignedSection`

| `[boolean](/FsDoc/variables.html#boolean)`| Whether or not it is an aligned
section cut.  
  
## sidegeometryrule

SideGeometryRule enum

See `opThicken`.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`REVOLVED` |   
`SUPPLIED` |   
  
## smcornertype

SMCornerType enum

Specifies the type of corner at a vertex of a sheet metal model.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`OPEN_CORNER` | The corner has more than two bends or, when folded the edges of the metal do not meet.   
`CLOSED_CORNER` | The corner has two bends and when folded the edge of the metal meet.   
`BEND_END` | The 'corner' is the end of a bend and there may be bend relief.   
`NOT_A_CORNER` | The vertex is not associated with a corner   
  
## splitoperationkeeptype

SplitOperationKeepType enum

See `opSplitPart`.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`KEEP_ALL` |   
`KEEP_FRONT` |   
`KEEP_BACK` |   
  
## surfacetype

SurfaceType enum

The subset of `GeometryType` which applies to 2-dimensional entities

Value| Description  
---|---  
`PLANE` |   
`CYLINDER` |   
`CONE` |   
`SPHERE` |   
`TORUS` |   
`OTHER` |   
`REVOLVED` |   
`EXTRUDED` |   
`MESH` |   
`SPLINE` |   
  
## tabletextalignment

TableTextAlignment enum

How text in a table column should be aligned

Value| Description  
---|---  
`LEFT` |   
`CENTER` |   
`RIGHT` |   
  
## tessellatedloftreturnstatus

TessellatedLoftReturnStatus enum

Enumerates failure modes for tessellated loft.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`OK` | No error.   
`CRISS_CROSSED_MATCHES` | At least two matches cross each other.   
`UNDERNOURISHED_MATCHES` | At least one match consists of fewer than 2 match points.   
`NON_CONSECUTIVE_MATCHES` | A match jumps across a profile without specifying a match point.   
`MATCHING_CYLINDER_CREATION_FAILED` | Most likely due to two profiles touching.   
`NON_CURVE_INPUT` | Only curves are allowed within profiles.   
`UNIDENTIFIED` | Some unknown error occurred.   
`INVALID_MATCH_POINT_INDEX` | At least one of the match indices points to a non-existent match point.   
`INVALID_MATCH_POINT` | At least one match point is specified on non-profile topology.   
  
## tool

The tool.fs module contains enum types shared by multiple features.

MoveFaceType enum

Defines how face should be transformed in a `moveFace` feature.

Also used by `boolean`.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`OFFSET` |   
`TRANSLATE` |   
`ROTATE` |   
  
ToolBodyType enum

Defines what type of body a body-creating feature (extrude, revolve, etc.)
should create.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`SOLID` |   
`SURFACE` |   
  
ExtendedToolBodyType enum

Defines what type of body a body-creating feature (extrude, revolve, etc.)
should create.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`SOLID` |   
`SURFACE` |   
`THIN` |   
  
NewBodyOperationType enum

Defines how a new body from a body-creating feature (extrude, revolve, etc.)
should be merged with other bodies in the context.

To include this enum with the same styling as the extrude dialog (and others),
use `booleanStepTypePredicate(definition)`.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`NEW` | Creates a new body in the context with the geometry resulting from the operation.   
`ADD` | Performs a boolean union between the new body and all bodies in the merge scope.   
`REMOVE` | Performs a boolean subtraction of the new body from all bodies in the merge scope.   
`INTERSECT` | Performs a boolean intersection between each new body and each body in the merge scope.   
  
NewSurfaceOperationType enum

Defines how a new surface from a surface-creating feature (sweep, loft,
revolve, etc.) should be merged with other surfaces in the context.

To include this enum with the same styling as the extrude dialog (and others),
use `booleanStepTypePredicate(definition)`.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`NEW` | Creates a new surface in the context with the geometry resulting from the operation.   
`ADD` | Performs a surface union between the new surface and all surfaces used as input.   
  
## uihint

UIHint enum

List of available UI Hints, which control how a parameter input is displayed
in the feature dialog.

EXAMPLE

>
>     annotation { "Name" : "Flip", "UIHint" : UIHint.OPPOSITE_DIRECTION }
>     definition.isFlipped is boolean;
>  

Multiple `UIHint`s can be specified in an array (e.g. `[
UIHint.OPPOSITE_DIRECTION, UIHint.REMEMBER_PREVIOUS_VALUE ]`).

Raw strings (e.g. "OPPOSITE_DIRECTION") may be used in place of the enum
access (e.g. UIHint.OPPOSITE_DIRECTION) for the same result.

`OPPOSITE_DIRECTION` and `ALWAYS_HIDDEN` behaviors are considered stable.
Other `UIHint`s can be used, but their behaviors may change in future versions
of Onshape.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`OPPOSITE_DIRECTION` | For a boolean parameter, display as a toggle button with arrow next to the previous parameter.   
`ALWAYS_HIDDEN` | Do not display this parameter or allow a user to edit it (useful for parameters changed only in editing logic or manipulator change functions).   
`SHOW_CREATE_SELECTION` | For a query parameter, include a button to open the "Create selection" dialog.   
`CONTROL_VISIBILITY` | For Onshape internal use.   
`NO_PREVIEW_PROVIDED` | For a feature, hide the preview slider which controls before/after transparency, and only show the final version.   
`REMEMBER_PREVIOUS_VALUE` | When a user makes a new instance of this feature, set this parameter's default value to the value they set the last time they used this feature.   
`DISPLAY_SHORT` | Two consecutive boolean or quantity parameters marked as DISPLAY_SHORT may be placed on the same line.   
`ALLOW_FEATURE_SELECTION` | For Onshape internal use.   
`MATE_CONNECTOR_AXIS_TYPE` | For Onshape internal use.   
`PRIMARY_AXIS` | For Onshape internal use.   
`SHOW_EXPRESSION` | If an expression (like #foo or 1/4 in) is entered, always show the expression, and never the resulting value.   
`OPPOSITE_DIRECTION_CIRCULAR` | Like `OPPOSITE_DIRECTION`, but with circular arrows.   
`SHOW_LABEL` | Show a label above an enum parameter.   
`HORIZONTAL_ENUM` | Display an enum as a horizontal list of clickable text, rather than the default select control   
`UNCONFIGURABLE` | For Onshape internal use.   
`MATCH_LAST_ARRAY_ITEM` | Inside an array parameter, set the default value on a new item to match what is set on the last item.   
`COLLAPSE_ARRAY_ITEMS` | For an array parameter, create new items (and items in a newly opened dialog) as collapsed by default.   
`INITIAL_FOCUS_ON_EDIT` | When an existing feature is edited, the first visible parameter with this UI hint will get focus.   
`INITIAL_FOCUS` | When creating or editing, the first visible parameter with this UI hint will get focus (but when editing, a parameter with INITIAL_FOCUS_ON_EDIT takes precedence).   
`DISPLAY_CURRENT_VALUE_ONLY` | For Onshape internal use.   
`READ_ONLY` | Prevent changes to the parameter from the feature dialog. A read-only parameter can be modified by the editing logic function.   
`PREVENT_CREATING_NEW_MATE_CONNECTORS` | For a query parameter allowing BodyType.MATE_CONNECTOR, only allow preexisting mate connectors, and don't provide a button to allow creating new mate connectors specificaly for this parameter.   
`FIRST_IN_ROW` | Guarantee that, regardless of other layout requirements, this parameter will always be the first parameter in its displayed row.   
`ALLOW_QUERY_ORDER` | Enable reordering of queries in a query parameter.   
`PREVENT_ARRAY_REORDER` | Disable reordering of items in an array parameter.   
`FOCUS_INNER_QUERY` | When adding a new item to an array parameter, focus the driving inner QLV if the parameter is selection-driven, and focus the first inner QLV otherwise.   
`SHOW_TOLERANCE` | For a boolean parameter, display as a toggle button with tolerance icon next to the previous parameter.   
`ALLOW_ARRAY_FOCUS` | Allow focusing an array parameter with no driving or inner QLV, as if it were selection-driven.   
`SHOW_INLINE_CONFIG_INPUTS` | Inline the configuration parameters in the configure dialog for the feature.   
`FOCUS_ON_VISIBLE` | For a query parameter, selects it when it becomes visible during editing.   
`CAN_BE_TOLERANT` | For Onshape internal use.   
`CAN_BE_TOLERANT_DIAMETER` | For Onshape internal use.   
`PLUS_MINUS` | Like `OPPOSITE_DIRECTION` but indicating whether the associated quantity is positive or negative.   
`ALWAYS_USE_DEPENDENCIES` | Always use the content of this parameter to determine feature dependencies.   
`NO_QUERY_VARIABLE` | Hides the query variable dropdown for the associated query parameter.   
`ALLOW_FLAT_SKETCH_SELECTION` | Allows a feature list parameter to select sketches defined on flat views.   
  
## variabletype

VariableType enum

See `assignVariable`.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`LENGTH` |   
`ANGLE` |   
`NUMBER` |   
`ANY` |   
  
## volumeaccuracy

VolumeAccuracy enum

Level of accuracy to use for computing the volume of a solid body. The values
are:

  * LOW: fastest, least accurate, good for approximations
  * MEDIUM: moderately fast, moderately accurate
  * HIGH: slowest, most accurate, required for regeneration

Value| Description  
---|---  
`LOW` |   
`MEDIUM` |   
`HIGH` |   
  
## weldfinishing

WeldFinishing enum

Enum to determine the weld finishing in ANSI standard.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`NONE` |   
`CHIPPING` |   
`GRINDING` |   
`HAMMERING` |   
`MACHINING` |   
`ROLLING` |   
`UNSPECIFIED` |   
  
## weldstandard

WeldStandard enum

Enum to switch the weld symbol representation between ANSI and ISO standard.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`ANSI` |   
`ISO` |   
  
## wraptype

WrapType enum

Specifies the type of wrap to execute.

Value| Description  
---|---  
`SIMPLE` | Wrap around the infinite definition of the destination surface.   
`TRIM` | Wrap around a defined destination face, and trim anything that falls off of it.   
`IMPRINT` | Imprint edges onto a defined destination face. 
  *[API]: Application Programming Interface
  *[TL;DR]: Too long; didn't read.

