---
url: https://cad.onshape.com/FsDoc/modeling.html#queries
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T14:26:15.356641
title: Untitled
---

[FeatureScript](index.html)

[Welcome to FeatureScript](index.html)

  * [_Tutorials_](tutorials/create-a-slot-feature.html)
  * [ _Standard Library documentation_](library.html)
  * [ _Standard Library source_](/documents/12312312345abcabcabcdeff)

[FeatureScript guide](intro.html)

  * [Introduction](intro.html)
  * [Defining feature types](feature-types.html)
  * [Feature UI](uispec.html)
  * [Feature output](output.html)
  * [Values and types](variables.html)
  * [Modeling](modeling.html)
  * [Custom tables](tables.html)
  * [Computed part properties](computed-part-properties.html)
  * [Imports](imports.html)
  * [Debugging in Feature Studios](debugging-in-feature-studios.html)

[Language reference](tokens.html)

  * [Lexical conventions](tokens.html)
  * [Types and type tags](type-tags.html)
  * [Top-level constructs](top-level.html)
  * [Syntax and semantics](syntax.html)
  * [Annotations](annotations.html)
  * [Exception handling](exceptions.html)
  * [Equality and ordering](relational.html)

# Modeling

### Context

A context is a builtin that stores modeling data, including bodies (solid,
sheet, wire, and point), their constituent entities (faces, edges, and
vertices), variables, feature error states, etc. All features, operations, and
evaluation functions require a context to operate on.

For more information, see the [context module](library.html#module-
context.fs).

### Bodies

The geometry in a context is grouped into independent bodies. A body is
comprised of zero or more vertices, faces, and edges and may represent a 3D
(solid), 2D (sheet), 1D (wire), or 0D (point) region. A cylinder, for example,
is a solid body with no vertices, two edges, and three faces. A construction
plane is a special type of sheet body with one face. A body is always
connected: for example, two disjoint volumes or surfaces cannot be a single
body.

Bodies, vertices, edges, and faces are collectively referred to as "entities".
Every face, edge, and vertex belongs to a body. The typical result of
regenerating a Part Studio is creating bodies in its context.

### Queries

Queries are used to refer to topological entities (vertices, edges, faces, and
bodies) in a context. You can think of a `Query` as an order form for
geometry, specifying criteria that said geometry must satisfy. For instance,
[`qCreatedBy`](library.html#qCreatedBy-Id) specifies geometry created during a
certain operation. [`qContainsPoint`](library.html#qContainsPoint-Query-
Vector) specifies geometry that touches a specified point. These queries can
be combined and nested into bigger or more specific queries.

A query does not reference entities, it simply encodes criteria. However, when
passed into a function (like an evaluation or an operation) together with a
context, that function can determine which entities match the query.

In general, the functions you use will take care of evaluating which entities
match a query. However, sometimes it is necessary to determine how many
entities match a query, or perform a loop over each match. In this situation,
you can use [`evaluateQuery`](library.html#evaluateQuery-Context-Query), which
returns an array of transient queries â€“ one for each entity in the context
matching the query at the time it was evaluated.

FeatureScript uses queries in place of direct references out of a need for
robustness in the face of changes earlier in the feature list. When we
reference the top of a cube, we need to be able to find that face again after
the user changed the cube's size and drilled a hole through it.

The full set of available query functions can be found in the [query
module](library.html#module-query.fs).

### Evaluations

Evaluation functions are used to measure the geometry and topology in a
context. They start with `ev` and take two arguments: a `Context` and a map
that specifies what to measure. For example, `evBox3d` and `evVolume`
respectively find the bounding box and the volume of a group of entities,
while `evVertexPoint` returns a 3D position `Vector` for a vertex.

The full set of available evaluation functions can be found in the [evaluate
module](library.html#module-evaluate.fs).

### Operations

Operations are standard library functions that create or modify geometry in a
context. They start with `op` and take three arguments: a `Context`, an
operation `Id`, and a definition map. A feature may have no operations (like
`assignVariable`), one operation (like `fillet` calls `opFillet`), or multiple
operations (like `extrude`, which may call `opExtrude`, `opDraft`, `opBoolean`
and more).

Operations modify the context which is passed in, potentially creating,
deleting, or changing its entities. This modification is tracked in Onshape
with a unique `Id`. For more on operation ids, see the [Id type
documentation](library.html#Id)

The full set of available operation functions can be found in the
[geomOperations module](library.html#module-geomOperations.fs).

### Primitives

Primitives are elementary operations like [`fCuboid`](library.html#fCuboid-
Context-Id-map) and [`fCylinder`](library.html#fCylinder-Context-Id-map) which
quickly create simple 3D solid bodies.

The full set of available primitive-creating functions can be found in the
[primitives module](library.html#module-primitives.fs).

### Sketches

Sketches can be created inside of custom features as final products or as a
step toward building new geometry.

The typical way of creating sketches from within a feature is different from
the typical way of creating sketches interactively in two important ways:

  * When creating a sketch from FeatureScript, full control over the sketch coordinate system is important. The `newSketchOnPlane` function creates a sketch whose coordinate system is derived from that of the passed in plane, while the `newSketch` function (called from Part Studios) uses a canonical coordinate system.
  * Sketches created from FeatureScript often don't need to make use of constraints (although they can if necessary) because it is often easier to calculate the desired sketch entity coordinates in FeatureScript than to set up the correct constraint system. The `skSolve` call is still necessary to generate sketch geometry.

Advanced sketch functionality, like sketch offset, sketch fillet, etc., is not
available in FeatureScript. Some of these gaps can be worked around by
extruding a solid body from the sketch and using operations like `opThicken`
or `opFillet`.

An example of creating and solving a sketch, along with the full set of sketch
functions, can be found in the [sketch module](library.html#module-sketch.fs).

### Geometry

As writing features often involves geometric computation, the standard library
provides types and functions to make it easier. There are types to represent
points, curves (such as lines and circles), surfaces (planes, cylinders,
cones), coordinate systems, and transforms. These are FeatureScript values and
should not be confused with entities living in a context. For instance,
`Vector`, `Line`, `Plane`, and `CoordSystem` are types and roughly
corresponding respective entities are a vertex, a line edge, a planar face (or
a construction plane), and a mate connector. Evaluation functions return
geometric types (e.g., `evVertexPoint`) and operations can create entities
from some geometric types (e.g., `opPoint`).

An issue that often arises when writing geometric code is round-off error in
floating-point. We recommend that for comparing geometric objects, you use the
`tolerantEquals` method instead of the builtin `==` operator (that does an
exact comparison). Keep in mind that while `tolerantEquals` tries to use
reasonable tolerances (1e-8 meters for length, 1e-11 radians for angle), they
may not be right for your specific application (and there is no general right
answer), but they will work well in most cases.

### Feature Patterns

Feature patterns will not automatically work correctly with custom features
because different features need to apply the pattern transform differently. To
help figure out the right transform to apply, the standard library provides
the function
[`getRemainderPatternTransform`](library.html#getRemainderPatternTransform-
Context-map). See its documentation for more information about feature
patterns and how to write features that work with them.

  *[API]: Application Programming Interface
  *[TL;DR]: Too long; didn't read.

