---
url: https://cad.onshape.com/FsDoc/tables.html
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T14:26:00.291851
title: Untitled
---

[FeatureScript](index.html)

[Welcome to FeatureScript](index.html)

  * [_Tutorials_](tutorials/create-a-slot-feature.html)
  * [ _Standard Library documentation_](library.html)
  * [ _Standard Library source_](/documents/12312312345abcabcabcdeff)

[FeatureScript guide](intro.html)

  * [Introduction](intro.html)
  * [Defining feature types](feature-types.html)
  * [Feature UI](uispec.html)
  * [Feature output](output.html)
  * [Values and types](variables.html)
  * [Modeling](modeling.html)
  * [Custom tables](tables.html)
  * [Computed part properties](computed-part-properties.html)
  * [Imports](imports.html)
  * [Debugging in Feature Studios](debugging-in-feature-studios.html)

[Language reference](tokens.html)

  * [Lexical conventions](tokens.html)
  * [Types and type tags](type-tags.html)
  * [Top-level constructs](top-level.html)
  * [Syntax and semantics](syntax.html)
  * [Annotations](annotations.html)
  * [Exception handling](exceptions.html)
  * [Equality and ordering](relational.html)

# Custom tables

FeatureScript custom tables can be used to display useful data in Part
Studios.

A custom table type, like a custom feature type, is defined with FeatureScript
code in a Feature Studio, and can be used in any Part Studio. The table type
defines a function to run on a fully regenerated Part Studio, which produces
either a [`Table`](library.html#Table) (to show one table) or a
[`TableArray`](library.html#TableArray) (to show multiple). This output is
displayed as a read-only table, which can be accessed anywhere by a user who
has added the table type to their tables.

For example, the table type definition below returns a single table listing
the volume of every part.

    
    
    annotation { "Table Type Name" : "Part volumes" }
    export const partVolumes = defineTable(function(context is Context, definition is map) returns Table
        precondition
        {
        }
        {
            var columns = [tableColumnDefinition("name", "Part name"),
                           tableColumnDefinition("volume", "Volume")];
    
            var rows = [];
            for (var part in evaluateQuery(context, qAllModifiableSolidBodies()))
            {
                var partName = getProperty(context, { "entity" : part, "propertyType" : PropertyType.NAME } );
                var volume = evVolume(context, { "entities" : part });
                rows = append(rows, tableRow({ "name" : partName, "volume" : volume }));
            }
    
            return table("Part volumes", columns, rows);
        });
    

![Custom table displaying part volumes](tutorials/images/part-volume-
table.png)

The table function can access any data that a custom feature can access: all
geometry of the Part Studio, all its variables, all its attributes, as well as
any FeatureScript functionality from in the Onshape Standard Library or other
Feature Studios. Additionally, from a table function, you can use the
[`getProperty()`](library.html#getProperty-Context-map) function to access the
values of any part properties.

![Onshape hole table](tutorials/images/hole-table.png)

The Onshape hole table is a table type defined in the Onshape Standard
Library. Just like Onshape's standard features are implemented using the same
FeatureScript functionality custom features have access to, Part Studio hole
tables are implemented using the functionality available to custom tables.

## Table content

A table consists of rows and columns. Column definitions are constructed with
the [`tableColumnDefinition(...)`](library.html#tableColumnDefinition-string-)
functions, which define an internal id, the user-facing name of the column,
and a cell alignment for the column (left, right, or center).

Rows are constructed with the [`tableRow(...)`](library.html#tableRow-map)
functions, whose `columnIdToCell` arguments set the contents of all the row's
cells. The keys in the `columnIdToCell` map should match the ids of the table
columns (though columns can be skipped to leave cells blank).

The value in each cell may be any of the following:

  * **String** : Any string will be displayed as-is inside the table cell
  * **ValueWithUnits** : Will be displayed in the cell in a human readable format (e.g. `1.23 in`) with the precision and units of the end user's document workspace.
  * **[TemplateString](library.html#TemplateString)** : Values with units may be inserted into template strings, so that they may still be shown with the correct precision and units while being part of other text in the cell. For example, a cell value of `templateString("diam = #d", { "d" : someDiameter })` might display as "diam = 1.23 in" in a workspace with inch units.
  * **[TableCellError](library.html#TableCellError)** : In the event of unexpected or problematic geometry, a table cell may be displayed with a red background by passing in e.g. `tableCellError("bad value", "Bad value encountered")`. The second argument is displayed in a tooltip when hovering over the erroneous cell, and either argument may be a `TemplateString`.

Values with units and `TemplateString`s may also be used in the table title
and column names.

#### Cross-highlighting

Rows and/or columns may be given `entities` to cross-highlight in their
constructors. These entities will be highlighted when a user hovers their
mouse over the table cells. Additionally, table rows will highlight when the
user hovers over its `entities`, and will scroll to the relevant entities when
they are selected.

#### Printing

For debugging purposes, a table may also be output as a string in the
FeatureScript console, which will format the table in a human-readable
fashion:

    
    
    println(table("Part volumes", columns, rows));
    

## Table parameters

Like custom features, custom tables can be defined with input parameters. They
are defined the same way that custom feature inputs are defined, but are
limited to [booleans](uispec.html#booleans), [strings](uispec.html#strings),
[enums](uispec.html#enums), and [quantities](uispec.html#quantities).

For example, the precondition of the table type below allows the user to set
their own threshold for detecting small fillet radii, and optionally allows
computing the size of the geometry being listed:

    
    
    precondition
    {
        annotation { "Name" : "Minimum fillet radius" }
        isLength(definition.minimumFilletRadius, NONNEGATIVE_ZERO_DEFAULT_LENGTH_BOUNDS);
    
        annotation { "Name" : "Calculate size" }
        definition.calculateSize is boolean;
    }
    

![Custom table inputs](tutorials/images/fillet-radius-input.png)

Like custom features, custom tables are fully recomputed each time one of
these inputs changes.

## Using custom tables with custom features

It is often useful to show data from custom features in a custom table. For
instance, the [FeatureScript Spur Gear
feature](https://cad.onshape.com/documents/5742c8cde4b06c68b362d748/w/b493e0cb681bbf9497d9f4b3/e/baf861561c7a73e43fc319b4)
is defined in the same document as a custom table which displays data about
the gears that have been created: ![Gear table](tutorials/images/gear-
table.png)

These measurements displayed are all either parameters of the spur gear
feature, or are computed while running the spur gear feature. To avoid extra
work and inaccuracy from measuring these gears at the end of regeneration, the
Spur Gear feature simply sets [attributes](library.html#module-attributes.fs)
on the gear parts created. The Gears table can read these attributes and
display them in a table.

  *[API]: Application Programming Interface
  *[TL;DR]: Too long; didn't read.

