---
url: https://cad.onshape.com/FsDoc/tokens.html
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T14:26:04.317474
title: Untitled
---

[FeatureScript](index.html)

[Welcome to FeatureScript](index.html)

  * [_Tutorials_](tutorials/create-a-slot-feature.html)
  * [ _Standard Library documentation_](library.html)
  * [ _Standard Library source_](/documents/12312312345abcabcabcdeff)

[FeatureScript guide](intro.html)

  * [Introduction](intro.html)
  * [Defining feature types](feature-types.html)
  * [Feature UI](uispec.html)
  * [Feature output](output.html)
  * [Values and types](variables.html)
  * [Modeling](modeling.html)
  * [Custom tables](tables.html)
  * [Computed part properties](computed-part-properties.html)
  * [Imports](imports.html)
  * [Debugging in Feature Studios](debugging-in-feature-studios.html)

[Language reference](tokens.html)

  * [Lexical conventions](tokens.html)
  * [Types and type tags](type-tags.html)
  * [Top-level constructs](top-level.html)
  * [Syntax and semantics](syntax.html)
  * [Annotations](annotations.html)
  * [Exception handling](exceptions.html)
  * [Equality and ordering](relational.html)

# Lexical Conventions

### Tokens and Keywords

Identifiers follow the usual conventions: initial letter or underscore
followed by alphanumeric or underscore. Letters are the 26 English letters,
with upper and lower case distinct. (Examples reserve initial capitals for
types and constants.) Identifiers prefixed with `@` are reserved for functions
provided by the runtime.

Characters other than 7 bit ASCII should only appear in comments or string
constants. Variables can't be named smiley face.

Semicolons are never optional; they are required or not allowed. Newlines
never substitute for semicolons.

Tab, newline, and carriage return serve equally as white space between tokens.
FeatureScript does not care how much you indent bodies of conditionals. The
optional auto-formatter will attempt to indent code following traditional
rules.

Most of the usual C-style operator, expression, and grouping characters are
used. For example `+=` is a valid token. Pre- and post-increment and decrement
operators (++ and --) are not supported. (They complicate overloading and make
ordering harder to understand.)

Strings are in single or double quotation marks. Use backslash to escape a
quotation mark of the same kind. A few backslash escapes are recognized: `b`,
`t`, `n`, `f`, `r`, with meaning as in C. Unicode characters in string
constants can be generated by `\u` followed by 4 hex characters, the same as
in Java or JavaScript.

Numeric constants are decimal floating point numbers, e.g. `3e9` or `1.44`,
plus the special value `inf` for infinity. Negated constants are converted to
negative constants.

FeatureScript has both C and C++ style comments, `/*` to `*/` or `//` to end
of line. Comments are whitespace as in C or JavaScript rather than ignored as
in TeX.

Keywords are

  * Top level and functions
    * `annotation`
    * `enum`
    * `export`
    * `function`
    * `import`
    * `operator`
    * `precondition`
    * `predicate`
    * `returns`
    * `type`
    * `typecheck`
    * `typeconvert`
  * Expressions
    * `as`
    * `is`
    * `new`
  * Statements
    * `break`
    * `const`
    * `continue`
    * `for`
    * `in`
    * `return`
    * `var`
    * `while`
  * Literals
    * `false`
    * `inf`
    * `true`
    * `undefined`
  * Exceptions
    * `catch`
    * `throw`
    * `try`
  * Reserved for future use
    * `assert`
    * `case`
    * `default`
    * `do`
    * `switch`

Unary operators are '-', '!', parentheses for grouping, and `[]` for box
access.

Binary operators are `+` `-` `*` `/` `%` `^` `~` `<` `>` `<=` `>=` `==` `!=`
`&&` `||` `??`. They have the usual meanings except `^` is used for
exponentiation and `~` for string concatenation. The undefined-coalescing
operator `??` evaluates to its left operand if that is not `undefined`, and to
its right operand otherwise. Special operators are `.` and `[]` for container
access, `is` for type checking, and `as` for type conversion.

Assignment operators are `=` `+=` `-=` `*=` `/=` `^=` `%=` `||=` `&&=` `??=`
`~=`.

Programs may also contain `,` `?` `:` `::` `{` `}` `(` `)` `[` `]`. Other
symbols, or sequences of symbols, are reserved.

  *[API]: Application Programming Interface
  *[TL;DR]: Too long; didn't read.

