---
url: https://cad.onshape.com/FsDoc/type-tags.html
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T14:26:05.322868
title: Untitled
---

[FeatureScript](index.html)

[Welcome to FeatureScript](index.html)

  * [_Tutorials_](tutorials/create-a-slot-feature.html)
  * [ _Standard Library documentation_](library.html)
  * [ _Standard Library source_](/documents/12312312345abcabcabcdeff)

[FeatureScript guide](intro.html)

  * [Introduction](intro.html)
  * [Defining feature types](feature-types.html)
  * [Feature UI](uispec.html)
  * [Feature output](output.html)
  * [Values and types](variables.html)
  * [Modeling](modeling.html)
  * [Custom tables](tables.html)
  * [Computed part properties](computed-part-properties.html)
  * [Imports](imports.html)
  * [Debugging in Feature Studios](debugging-in-feature-studios.html)

[Language reference](tokens.html)

  * [Lexical conventions](tokens.html)
  * [Types and type tags](type-tags.html)
  * [Top-level constructs](top-level.html)
  * [Syntax and semantics](syntax.html)
  * [Annotations](annotations.html)
  * [Exception handling](exceptions.html)
  * [Equality and ordering](relational.html)

# Types and type tags

Types in FeatureScript are dynamic (i.e. type errors are detected during
execution). Every value belongs to exactly one standard type and possibly has
one type tag marking it as an _enumeration_ or a _custom type_.

Types are not hierarchical, parameterized, or dependent. There is no such type
as "number box" that can hold only a number or "array of length 3" with
exactly three values. Custom types can be used to simulate some parameterized
types.

Types are tested with the `is` operator and changed with the `as` operator.

Every FeatureScript value belongs to exactly one of these standard types:

  * `undefined`, with one value `undefined`
  * `boolean`, with two values `true` and `false`
  * `number`, in IEEE 64 bit format including -0, -inf, and +inf, but not NaN.
  * `string`, a Unicode string
  * `array`, a fixed size heterogeneous collection indexed by small integers
  * `map`, a heterogeneous collection indexed by values
  * `box`, a mutable container holding a single value at a time
  * `builtin`, an opaque type understood only by the runtime system
  * `function`, a [lambda](top-level.html#lambda-functions) (closure) created using a `function` expression.

Arrays, maps, and boxes are mutable, meaning they contain internal state that
can be changed. (As distinct from assigning to a variable.) Assignment,
argument passing, and value return make deep copies of arrays and maps, so
such mutation affects only the variable assigned to.

    
    
    var a = { 0 : false, 1 : true }; // A map with two entries
    var b = a;
    a == b; // Structural equality, not physical equality
    a[0] = true;
    a != b; // The map in b did not change.
    

Boxes can be used like C pointers or Java references to allow a change to
escape its scope. This function returns a function with an internal counter.

    
    
    function counter() returns function
    {
        const b = new box(0);
        return function() { b[] += 1; return b[]; };
    }
    

#### Type conversion

Type tags are added to values with the `as` operator. The expression `v as
TypeId` yields a value that is identical to `v` except that it has a type tag
`TypeId`.

If the type is an enumeration, the value must be a string that is a member of
the enumeration.

If the type is a standard type, the value must belong to that type. For
example, `'0' as number` does not convert the string `'0'` to a number.

Because a value has at most one type tag, any previous type tag is discarded
by the `as` operator. If the type operand is a standard type, the result of
the `as` operator no longer has a type tag.

    
    
    enum E { A }
    E.A is E == true
    E.A is string == true
    (E.A as string) is string == true
    (E.A as string) is E == false
    

Values with different type tags are not equal. Assuming `x` is a map that
satisfies the predicate for type `ValueWithUnits` but is not of that type

    
    
    x != (x as ValueWithUnits)
    

but

    
    
    x == ((x as ValueWithUnits) as map)
    

Assignment to part of a container (mutation) does not affect the type tag. The
value may no longer satisfy the predicate associated with its custom type.
(This behavior may change and programs should not rely on it.)

Predefined operators on standard types produce a new value without a type tag.
If `+` is not overloaded,

    
    
    (2 as Even) + (2 as Even) == 4
    (2 as Even) + (2 as Even) != (4 as Even)
    

#### Type testing

Types are checked by the `is` operator. A value always "is" exactly one
standard type, and "is" also the type of its type tag if it has one.

Continuing a previous example

    
    
    x is map == true
    (x is ValueWithUnits) == false
    (x as ValueWithUnits) is map == true
    (x as ValueWithUnits) is ValueWithUnits == true
    

#### Standard types

##### Undefined

There is one instance of the type `undefined`, also called `undefined`.
Examples of `undefined` values include

  * An uninitialized variable
  * The return value of a function that "falls off the end"
  * The result of looking up a key that is not present in a map

##### Booleans

Booleans (type name `boolean`) are either `true` or `false`. There are no
implicit conversions to boolean, so write `if (x != 0)` rather than `if (x)`.
(This is consistent with Java but not with C, JavaScript, and Python.)

##### Numbers

Numbers (type name `number`) use IEEE double precision floating point format.
Positive and negative infinity are numbers. NaN is not a number and
expressions that evaluate to NaN raise runtime exceptions. Every value is
equal to itself. Positive and negative zero are equal to each other,
consistent with the IEEE floating point standard.

An _integer_ is a `number` that is exactly equal to an integer. The range of
integers is +/- 2^53. Addition, subtraction, and multiplication of integers
yield integers if arguments and result are both in this range. Other
calculations may unexpectedly yield non-integral results due to rounding
error. Expressions written in FeatureScript respect the evaluation order
implied by the parse tree. FeatureScript executes in round-to-nearest mode
(C/C++ `FE_TONEAREST`). If problems persist, consult a numerical analyst.

Library functions may allow approximate integers. These will specify a
tolerance.

##### Strings

Strings (type name `string`) hold Unicode characters. String constants are
described in lexical conventions. Characters can be extracted with the
standard library `splitIntoCharacters` function. Bytes can not be extracted
and the internal encoding is not program-visible.

Regular expression matching and replacement are also available using the
`match` and `replace` functions. The `~` operator concatenates strings. If its
operands are not strings, they are first converted into strings using an
internal algorithm. The `toString` function has been implemented for a number
of library types to convert values into a more convenient string form. For
example `2 * meter ~ ""` evaluates to a string like: `"ValueWithUnits(27) : {
"unit" : UnitSpec(28) : { "meter" : 1 } , "value" : 2 }"` while `toString(2 *
meter)` returns `"2 meter"`.

##### Containers

FeatureScript provides three types of containers: unordered maps, ordered
arrays, and modifiable boxes. The container access operator `[]` may be used
to look inside any container. The map access operator `.` may be used to look
inside a map. Box references may always be assigned to. Other container
accesses may be assigned only if the base object is a variable. Safe
navigation operators `?.` and `?[...]` can be used to access elements inside
boxes, arrays and maps. If any of these containers are `undefined`, the
expression evaluates to `undefined` instead of causing an error. This can
eliminate the need for explicit checks and conditional handling.

Application of an access operator to the wrong type is an error, generating an
execution exception at runtime.

In the current implementation, static analysis does not warn about expressions
like `true.x` that will always fail at runtime.

###### Arrays

Arrays (type name `array`) are modifiable, heterogeneous collections indexed
by small, non-negative integers. The first index is 0.

Arrays are created by _array literals_ ,

    
    
    var a = [1,2,3,4];
    a[0] == 1;
    var b = undefined;
    var c = b?[0] // c will be undefined
    var d = a?[1] // d == 2
    

It is an error to read or write a negative index, a non-integral index, or an
index past the end of the array. Arrays do not grow on write. The standard
library module `containers.fs` defines functions to create or modify arrays.

###### Maps

A map (type name `map`) is a heterogeneous collection indexed by values.
Duplicate keys are not allowed. An older value with the same key is replaced
when a new key is added.

Applied to a map, the `[]` operator accepts any value as argument:

    
    
    m["field"]
    m[693.5]
    m[undefined]
    

Map keys are usually strings. When the key is string that is a non-reserved
identifier it may be written unquoted as the right operand to the dot
operator:

    
    
    m.field
    

The result of map indexing is an lvalue in C terminology: it may be assigned
to or evaluated for its value.

    
    
    m.three = 3;
    

Assignment creates a new map key if required, or replaces an existing key.

A reference to an absent key returns `undefined`. This is not an error. User
code is responsible for handling missing keys.

Because attempting to reference a field of `undefined` or other non-`map` type
is an error code should not execute `x.y.z` unless `x.y` is known to be a map.

Storing a value of `undefined` to a map removes the key. Iteration over a map
will not visit entries with `undefined` values.

LHS op= RHS behaves as in C: LHS = LHS op RHS, with side effects in evaluation
of LHS only happening once. It is not an error to apply op= to an initially
absent field, but the operator will receive `undefined` as its first operand.
For example,

    
    
    var x = {}; // empty map
    x.k += 1;
    

is the same as

    
    
    var x = {}; // empty map
    x.k = x.k + 1;
    

which is an error because the `+` operator does not know how to add
`undefined` to a number.

Maps are created by _map literals_. A map literal is a comma separated list of
key:value pairs enclosed in {curly braces}. Both keys and values can be any
expressions. If the key is a string that is also an non-reserved identifier it
may be written unquoted. String keys may also be written as quoted strings.
Empty maps are allowed. Key:value pairs are inserted left to right, so the
last instance of a duplicate key has priority.

FeatureScript will complain if an unquoted key is the same as a variable name.
Change `{x:0}` to `{(x):0}` to use the value of variable `x` as a key, or
`{'x':0}` to use the string '`x`' as a key.

Examples:

    
    
    {} // empty map
    {count:75, category:"chipmunks"}
    var a = "hello, world";
    {a:0, a:1} // {a:0, a:1}.["a"] == 1
    {a:false, (a):true} // {a:false, (a):true}["hello, world"] == true
    {{a:false}:true} // maps can be keys
    {a:true,a:undefined} // same as empty map
    var x = undefined;
    var y = x?.k; // y will be undefined
    var z = {count:75, category:"chipmunks"};
    var k = z?.count; // k == 75
    

###### Boxes

A box (type name `box`) is a modifiable storage location that holds one value
(including another box).

Because boxes introduce state, they are not allowed in certain contexts that
must generate reproducible results. See "Purity".

A box is allocated with the `new box` construct which provides the initial
value to be stored. The value inside a box is read or written with the the
`[]` container access operator with no argument inside.

    
    
    var b = new box(3);
    var c = new box({x:0,y:1});
    c[] = b[] + c[].y;
    var d = undefined;
    var x = d?[]; // x will be undefined
    var y = b?[]; // y == 3
    

##### Builtins

Builtin types (type name `builtin`) hold runtime state that can not be
expressed in FeatureScript. Modeling state is represented as a builtin. See
standard library documentation.

#### Enumerations

The `enum` keyword declares an enumeration. All enumerations must be declared
at top level, outside of any function. Syntax is as usual:

    
    
    enum Example { A, B }
    

Note that trailing comma and semicolon are not allowed. An enumeration name is
both a type and a value, an immutable map. Map values are strings with the tag
of the enumeration type. So,

    
    
    Example is map; // It's a value!
    Example.A is Example; // It's a type!
    Example.A is string;
    

An enumeration type tag may be added to a string with the `as` operator. If
the string is equal to the name of one of the values, the operation succeeds
(yields a value with a type tag). Otherwise, the conversion is an error and an
exception is raised.

    
    
    "A" as Example // same as Example.A
    "Z" as Example // runtime error
    0 as Example // runtime error
    

A value cannot be tagged as an enumeration unless its standard type is string.

### Assignment and copying

The assignment operator `=` makes a copy of the value on the right side and
stores it in the variable or field denoted by the left side. Parameter passing
and function return work the same way as `=`. (The behavior of function return
is probably not observable.)

Copies of values are deep copies. Fields of maps and arrays, and keys of maps,
are copied as if by assignment, recursively if needed.

Boxes and builtins are exceptions to the preceding rule. Copying a box or
builtin yields the same value. Thus boxes and builtins provide a way, and the
only way, to share program-visible state between two unrelated functions, or
for a child function to modify its parent's state.

There are nine compound assignment operators which work the same as in C: `x
op= y` is `x = x op y` except side effects on the left side only happen once.
The compound assignment operators are

  * `+=`
  * `-=`
  * `*=`
  * `/=`
  * `^=`
  * `%=`
  * `||=`
  * `&&=`
  * `??=`
  * `~=`

Because these operators work like ordinary assignment, the type tag of the
result is determined by the binary operator rather than the type tag of the
operands.

Redundant parentheses are not allowed on the left hand side, so `x.y = (z)` is
valid but `(x).y = z` is not.

Note that the following

    
    
    var recursive = {a:0};
    recursive.a = recursive;
    

does not create a recursive data structure. The value of `recursive.a` is a
copy of the value of `recursive` prior to assignment, i.e.

    
    
    recursive == {a : {a : 0}}
    
  *[API]: Application Programming Interface
  *[TL;DR]: Too long; didn't read.

