---
url: https://cad.onshape.com/FsDoc/uispec.html#queries
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T14:26:21.720892
title: Untitled
---

[FeatureScript](index.html)  
  
[Welcome to FeatureScript](index.html)

  * [_Tutorials_](tutorials/create-a-slot-feature.html)
  * [ _Standard Library documentation_](library.html)
  * [ _Standard Library source_](/documents/12312312345abcabcabcdeff)

[FeatureScript guide](intro.html)

  * [Introduction](intro.html)
  * [Defining feature types](feature-types.html)
  * [Feature UI](uispec.html)
  * [Feature output](output.html)
  * [Values and types](variables.html)
  * [Modeling](modeling.html)
  * [Custom tables](tables.html)
  * [Computed part properties](computed-part-properties.html)
  * [Imports](imports.html)
  * [Debugging in Feature Studios](debugging-in-feature-studios.html)

[Language reference](tokens.html)

  * [Lexical conventions](tokens.html)
  * [Types and type tags](type-tags.html)
  * [Top-level constructs](top-level.html)
  * [Syntax and semantics](syntax.html)
  * [Annotations](annotations.html)
  * [Exception handling](exceptions.html)
  * [Equality and ordering](relational.html)

# Feature UI

The user interface to both custom and standard features is a feature dialog.
This page describes methods to create the inputs to these feature dialogs, and
two alternative ways of updating the parameters dynamically.

## Defining a feature dialog

Onshape creates the feature dialog by doing a static analysis (rather than an
execution) of the feature declaration, primarily of the precondition. If the
feature declaration does not match the allowed form, warnings are reported and
the feature is not made available to Part Studios. A minimal valid feature
declaration is:

    
    
    annotation { "Feature Type Name" : "Fancy Fillet" /* May have additional options */}
    export const fancyFillet = defineFeature(function(context is Context, id is Id, definition is map)
        precondition
        {
            // Parameter specifications go here
        }
        {
            // Feature Body
        });
    

This declaration can be easily extended in three places: The feature
annotation, the feature precondition, and the feature body.

### Feature annotations

A constant needs a `"Feature Type Name"` to be processed as a feature.
Additionally, the following other fields can optionally be specified in the
annotation map (with strings or arrays of strings):

  * `"Manipulator Change Function"`: Name of the function to be called whenever a manipulator that this feature created is moved. See below.
  * `"Editing Logic Function"`: Name of the function to be called whenever the user changes this feature definition. See below.
  * `"Filter Selector"`: An array of strings used to find this feature in the feature list, when input as search terms after a colon. For example, if a feature specifies `"Filter Selector" : ["foo", "bar"]`, then entering `:foo` or `:bar` in the feature list filter will show the feature.
  * `"Feature Name Template"`: A template for naming new features, replacing the default of using the Feature Type Name. See variable.fs for an example.
  * `"Tooltip Template"`: A template for feature tooltips, using the same syntax as the Feature Type Name. See variable.fs for an example.
  * `"UIHint"`: Additional UI options, such as `UIHint.NO_PREVIEW_PROVIDED`, which prevents the preview slider from appearing.
  * `”Feature Type Description”`: A description of what the feature does and how to use it, to be displayed in feature tooltips and the “Search tools” panel.
  * `"Icon"`: An icon to display for the feature.
  * `"Description Image"`: A JPG, PNG, or SVG file to display as the description image for the feature.

## Feature parameters

The parameter specification simultaneously serves as a validity check for the
feature and a description of the UI for inputting that parameter. Any
parameter specification may be annotated with a `"Name"`, specifying the user-
facing name of the parameter.

Parameter specifications may be factored out into predicates (e.g. usages of
[`booleanStepScopePredicate`](library.html#booleanStepScopePredicate-map) in
std). Parameters may also be made conditional by putting them in `if`
statements.

Code snippets for the parameter specifications described in this section are
available inside a Feature Studio in the parameter snippets menu:

![Parameter snippets menu](tutorials/images/parameter-snippets.png)

### Booleans

The specification of a boolean parameter in the precondition uses the `is`
operator on the indicated definition field:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "My Boolean", "Default" : true }
    definition.myBoolean is boolean;
    

![Boolean in feature dialog](tutorials/images/boolean-parameter.png)

Boolean parameters are rendered as a checkbox by default, though this may be
changed via `UIHint`. The `"Default"` field is optional and will be `false` if
unspecified.

### Strings

A string parameter is specified similarly:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "My String", "Default" : "My default value" }
    definition.myString is string;
    

![String in feature dialog](tutorials/images/string-parameter.png)

This creates a text box, whose input can be any FeatureScript
[`string`](variables.html#String). The `"Default"` field is optional and will
be empty if unspecified.

To set limits on the number of characters allowed, the `"MaxLength"` and
`"MinLength"` annotation fields may be used.

### Enums

An enum parameter is specified using the `is` expression and must refer to an
enum that this module exports. Each individual enumeration value may have a
user-visible `"Name"` annotation:

    
    
    export enum MyOption
    {
        annotation { "Name" : "Option One" }
        ONE,
        annotation { "Name" : "Option Two" }
        TWO
    }
    ...
    annotation { "Name" : "My Enum" }
    definition.myEnum is MyOption;
    

![Enum in feature dialog](tutorials/images/enum-parameter.png)

By default, an enum parameter is rendered as a dropdown menu with an option
for every enum value, though this may be changed by providing a `UIHint`. For
instance, `UIHint.HORIZONTAL_ENUM` will display the enum values as a group of
tabs.

Any of the following fields can be specified in the annotation map of an enum
parameter definition:

  * `"Name"`: A user-visible name for the parameter.
  * `"Default"`: The name of the value that should be the default. If unspecified, the first value will be used.
  * `"Icon"`: An icon to be displayed alongside the parameter.
  * `"UIHint"`: Additional UI options.

On the enum itself, each value may be annotated with one or more of the
following:

  * `"Name"`: A user-visible name for the value.
  * `"Icon"`: An icon to be displayed alongside the value.
  * `"Hidden"`: If `true`, the value will be hidden from end users. This can be used to hide a value that is no longer supported, for example.

### Quantities

A quantity parameter represents a value with units. For instance, a one-
dimensional length parameter may be specified with an `isLength` predicate:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "My Length" }
    isLength(definition.myLength, LENGTH_BOUNDS);
    

![Length in feature dialog](tutorials/images/length-parameter.png)

A quantity is rendered as a text box into which a number, a number with units,
or a mathematical expression may be typed.

We currently support the following quantity and predicates to specify them:

  * Length: `isLength`
  * Angle: `isAngle`
  * Integer: `isInteger`
  * Real: `isReal`
  * Anything: `isAnything`

`isAnything` allows any expression with any units (see below) or even any
FeatureScript type.

The other predicates require a bounds argument which specifies both the bounds
and the default value. The [value bounds module](library.html#module-
valueBounds.fs) defines several common quantity bounds, but you can also
define custom value bounds inline. For example, the following predicate
specifies a default length of 1.75 inches:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "My Length" }
    isLength(definition.myLength, { (inch) : [ 0, 1.75, 10000 ] } as LengthBoundSpec);
    

A quantity parameter can be annotated with an icon.

#### Parameter expressions

Any time a feature requires user-specified parameters, it is also possible to
enter an expression. For example, all of the following expressions can be
typed directly into the entry field for a numeric parameter:

  * `6`
  * `22/7 mm`
  * `sqrt(1 + sin(61deg)) / 8`
  * `(round(#myWidth, .1mm) + 2 inches)` (assuming a variable named `myWidth` has been created)

See [the FeatureScript math module](library.html#module-math.fs) for a list of
all defined mathematical functions. For more details on numeric parameter
expressions, including a list of accepted unit abbreviations, see the [help
documentation](https://cad.onshape.com/help/Content/numeric-fields.htm).

Parameter expressions are evaluated in two steps: First, they are pre-
processed to convert units and variables to their true values. In particular,
unit abbreviations such as `2 in` are expanded to `2 * inch`, and variables
such as `#foo` are replaced by calls to `getVariable("foo")`. Then, the
resulting expression is directly executed as FeatureScript. As a result, any
valid FeatureScript expression can be entered into a parameter field (as long
as the expression evaluates to the correct type).

Here are some advanced examples of FeatureScript functionality in parameter
expressions:

  * Array indexing: `[3, 1, 4, 1, 5][#index]`
  * Ternary operators: `(#myNum % 2 == 0) ? #myNum / 2 : 3 * #myNum + 1`
  * Lambda functions: `(function(x) { return (x^2 + 1) in; })(1)`
  * Vector math: `squaredNorm(cross(vector(1, 1, 2) * meter, vector(3, 5, 8) * meter))`

An `isAnything` precondition accepts any parameter expression, regardless of
its type. This can be used to enter values such as booleans and strings into
custom features as expressions (which can refer to variables), or to enter
other types such as vectors or lambda functions. The default value of an
`isAnything` precondition will be placed into the parameter field, and
therefore must be a string whose contents evaluate to a valid parameter
expression, such as `"57"`, `"&quot;My string&quot;"`, `"true"`, or
`"function(){ return &quot;Hello, world!&quot; }"`.

### Queries

When the user selects entities (vertices, edges, faces, and bodies), they are
passed to the feature as a query. The minimal query parameter specification is
`definition.myParameter is Query;`. There are two query-specific annotations
allowed that restrict what can be selected:

  * `"MaxNumberOfPicks"`, which must be an integer literal
  * `"Filter"`, which must be an expression as described below

Note that the feature should not rely on the queries satisfying the filter or
evaluating to at most MaxNumberOfPicks because changes to upstream features
may change the type of the selected entity or turn a single selected entity
into multiple.

The `"Filter"` expression can contain values of the following enums:

  * [`BodyType`](library.html#BodyType)
  * [`EntityType`](library.html#EntityType)
  * [`GeometryType`](library.html#GeometryType)
  * [`ConstructionObject`](library.html#ConstructionObject)
  * [`AllowMeshGeometry`](library.html#AllowMeshGeometry)
  * [`AllowFlattenedGeometry`](library.html#AllowFlattenedGeometry)
  * [`ActiveSheetMetal`](library.html#ActiveSheetMetal)
  * [`SheetMetalDefinitionEntityType`](library.html#SheetMetalDefinitionEntityType)
  * [`ModifiableEntityOnly`](library.html#ModifiableEntityOnly)
  * [`AllowEdgePoint`](library.html#AllowEdgePoint)
  * [`SketchObject`](library.html#SketchObject)
  * [`EdgeTopology`](library.html#EdgeTopology)
  * [`QueryFilterCompound`](library.html#QueryFilterCompound)

These values may be combined using `&&`, `||`, and `!`, even though such an
expression could not be evaluated outside of an annotation. For example, to
allow only at most two sketch circles or arcs, use:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "Round things",
                 "Filter" : (GeometryType.CIRCLE || GeometryType.ARC) && SketchObject.YES,
                 "MaxNumberOfPicks" : 2 }
    definition.roundThings is Query;
    

![Query in feature dialog](tutorials/images/query-parameter.png)

These filters are only applied on the client during selection; because of
changes to features earlier in the feature list, the actual query passed in
may evaluate to entities that do not actually pass the filters, so it is up to
the feature author to check or filter the input inside the feature body. Some
filters like `QueryFilterCompound` do not have corresponding queries.

### References

Custom features often need to use geometry or data contained in other Onshape
tabs. Reference parameters allow a user to select a Part Studio, image, or CSV
tab to reference.

Like all Onshape references, if this other tab is in the same document, the
feature will be kept up-to-date with any changes to the other tab. If the
other tab is in another document, its data is kept at a version, and the
feature displays a link icon which allows the user to update that version if
desired.

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "Part Studio", "Filter" : PartStudioItemType.SOLID || PartStudioItemType.ENTIRE_PART_STUDIO }
    definition.myPartStudio is PartStudioData;
    

![Part Studio reference in feature dialog](tutorials/images/part-studio-
reference-parameter-solid.png)

A detailed overview of all types of reference parameters can be found in the
[FeatureScript imports documentation](imports.html#reference-parameters).

Example features using reference parameters can be found in the [Reference
parameter examples
document](https://cad.onshape.com/documents/c407dcc5516019b9d00703fd).

### Lookup tables

A lookup table is a UI built around specifying a parameter (or set of
parameters) though a decision tree. This is similar to selecting an option
from an enum value, but each option can have additional sub-options, each sub-
option may have sub-sub-options, etc. A typical use is navigating to a
standard size, which you can try out in Onshape's Hole feature.

An example of a feature using a lookup table is below:

    
    
    const ml is ValueWithUnits = centimeter ^ 3;
    const oz is ValueWithUnits = 29.5735 * ml;
    
    export const sizeTable = {
            "name" : "region",
            "displayName" : "Region",
            "default" : "EU",
            "entries" : {
                "EU" : {
                    "name" : "size",
                    "displayName" : "Size",
                    "default" : "Medium",
                    "entries" : {
                        "Small" : 250 * ml,
                        "Medium" : 350 * ml,
                        "Large" : 500 * ml
                    }
                },
                "US" : {
                    "name" : "size",
                    "displayName" : "Size",
                    "default" : "Large",
                    "entries" : {
                        "Medium" : 16 * oz,
                        "Large" : 32 * oz,
                        "Supersize" : 64 * oz
                    }
                }
            }
        };
    
    annotation { "Feature Type Name" : "Soda" }
    export const soda = defineFeature(function(context is Context, id is Id, definition is map)
        precondition
        {
            annotation { "Name" : "Soda size", "Lookup Table" : sizeTable }
            definition.size is LookupTablePath;
        }
        {
            var size is ValueWithUnits = getLookupTable(sizeTable, definition.size);
    
            fCylinder(context, id + "cylinder1", {
                    "bottomCenter" : vector(0, 0, 0) * inch,
                    "topCenter" : vector(0, 0, 1) * size ^ (1/3),
                    "radius" : size ^ (1/3) / sqrt(PI)
            });
        });
    

![Lookup table parameter](tutorials/images/lookup-table-parameter.png)

A lookup table is a
[tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tree_\(data_structure\)) data structure,
defined as a FeatureScript [map](variables.html#map) with a specific format.
The root node of the tree specifies the FeatureScript `"name"` of the option
(in the above example, "region"), the `"displayName"` of the option to show in
the dialog (above, "Region"), and, optionally, the `"default"` value of the
option (above, "EU").

The root node finally specifies a map of `"entries"`. The key of each entry is
the user-visible name of that option. The value of each entry may be one of
two things:

1\. If more choices are needed, the entry value will be the next node of the
decision tree, with the same form as the root node: a map of `"name"`,
`"displayName"`, optional `"default"`, and another map of `"entries"`. 2\. If
no more are choices needed, the entry value will be final value of the
parameter (above, the volumes of e.g. `250 * ml`).

Successive nodes of the decision tree may be nested arbitrarily deep, but
every possible path should terminate in a final value.

The parameter's final value may be of any form. One lookup table can specify
the value of multiple parameters by setting each final value to a map of
several parameters.

A parameter based on the lookup table is declared with type `LookupTablePath`
and annotated with its associated `"LookupTable"`. The `LookupTablePath` given
in the definition can then be resolved to the final value of the parameter
with the [`getLookupTable`](library.html#getLookupTable-map-LookupTablePath)
function.

### Arrays

An array parameter contains a FeatureScript [array](variables.html#array) of
items, where each item contains one or more inner parameters. The inner
parameters may be of any parameter type (though one array parameter cannot be
nested inside another). A user can add any number of items to the array
parameter, and may click on the item names to expand or collapse the
parameters within.

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "Profiles",
        "Item name" : "Profile",
        "Item label template" : "Profile (#width)" }
    definition.profiles is array;
    
    
    
    for (var profile in definition.profiles)
    {
        annotation { "Name" : "Width" }
        isLength(profile.width, LENGTH_BOUNDS);  
    
        annotation { "Name" : "Make square" }
        profile.isSquare is boolean;
    }
    

![Array parameter feature dialog](tutorials/images/array-parameter.png)

The value of an array parameter is an array of maps, e.g.:

    
    
    [
        { "width" : 0.9 * inch, "isSquare" : false },
        { "width" : 1.2 * inch, "isSquare" : true }
    ]
    

As with any FeatureScript array, the items inside can be accessed (via
`definition.profiles[0]` ) or iterated through (via `for (var profile in
definition.profiles) {}` ).

The annotation for an array parameter can include the following fields:

  * `"Item name"`: The name on the add button.
  * `"Item label template"`: The label above each item. Computed values of the inner parameters can be included in the label using the same `#parameterName` syntax used in the feature name template.
  * `"Driven query"`: Specifies a single inner query parameter, and makes the array parameter selection-driven. A selection-driven array parameter has no add button. Instead, when a user selects an entity, a new item is added, and that item's driven query parameter is populated with the selected entity. As long as the array parameter is focused (blue), all entities in the driven query of all items are highlighted in the graphics view. Clicking to remove a highlighted entity will remove the it from driven query parameters, and remove any newly empty items. Thus, the user's interaction with a selection-driven array parameter is very similar to their interaction with a single query parameter.
  * `"Show labels only"`: Whether or not to only show the label for each item. This option removes the add button and the expander to the left of the item label, disabling the ability to add or expand and edit items. Unlike when using `UIHint.READ_ONLY` on an array parameter, items may still be removed, or the array may be cleared. This can be useful for an array parameter whose entries don't need to be edited manually (for example, if they're changed only in editing logic or manipulator change functions) but should still be allowed to be removed.
  * `"UIHint"`: Additional UI options, which can include `UIHint.COLLAPSE_ARRAY_ITEMS` to create new items and present newly opened dialogs with all array items collapsed by default.

The `UIHint` `UIHint.MATCH_LAST_ARRAY_ITEM` can be used on an inner parameter
to set its default value according to the last item in the current list, if it
exists.

Note that inner parameter names must be unique across the entire feature (even
though they are not stored directly on the `definition` map).

### Parameter groups

Parameters can be combined into a collapsible group and can be nested.
Parameter groups can be useful for simplifying large feature dialogs and for
indicating which parameters belong together. To define a parameter group,
enclose it in a statement block and annotate it with `Group Name`, e.g.:

    
    
    annotation { "Group Name" : "My Group" }
    {
        annotation { "Name" : "My Boolean" }
        definition.myBoolean is boolean;
    
        annotation { "Name" : "My Length" }
        isLength(definition.myLength, LENGTH_BOUNDS);
    }
    

By default, when a feature dialog is opened, groups are collapsed. To override
that behavior, add `"Collapsed By Default" : false` to the annotation. The
group chevron can be put on the same line as a preceding boolean parameter by
adding `"Driving Parameter" : "parameterId"` to the group annotation. A
possible use-case is to combine this with an if statement, as follows:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "Additional Options" }
    definition.additionalOptions is boolean;
    
    if (definition.additionalOptions)
    {
        annotation { "Group Name" : "Options", "Collapsed By Default" : false, "Driving Parameter" : "additionalOptions" }
        {
            annotation { "Name" : "Option" }
            definition.option is string;
        }
    }
    

## UIHints

A parameter may have one or more [`"UIHint"`](library.html#UIHint) strings
specified in the annotation. For example, `UIHint.OPPOSITE_DIRECTION` causes a
boolean to be rendered as an opposite direction button. Typically, this is
used in tandem with a length parameter, as shown below:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "Flip", "UIHint" : UIHint.OPPOSITE_DIRECTION }
    definition.isFlipped is boolean;
    

![Opposite direction in feature dialog](tutorials/images/opposite-
direction.png)

Multiple hints can be specified in an array (e.g. `[
UIHint.OPPOSITE_DIRECTION, UIHint.REMEMBER_PREVIOUS_VALUE ]`). Most hints are
type-specific, but any parameter may have `UIHint.ALWAYS_HIDDEN` to prevent it
from ever appearing in the dialog. This can be useful for keeping hidden state
in the definition for use by manipulators or editing logic.

Some values are intended for Onshape internal use. These may not work or may
change behavior in future versions. The [`UIHint` enum](library.html#UIHint)
in the Standard Library contains more information on this as well as the full
set of available options.

## Conditional visibility

Some parameters only make sense for certain settings of other parameters. To
express this, the specifications for conditionally visible parameters can be
put in `if` statements referencing already specified parameters. For example:

    
    
        ...
        precondition
        {
            definition.useCustomLength is boolean;
            if (definition.useCustomLength)
                isLength(definition.customLength, LENGTH_BOUNDS);
        }
        ...
    

The conditions for the if statements may include comparisons of prior boolean
and enum parameters to fixed values using `==` and `!=`. They may also include
the logical operators `&&`, `||`, and `!`. The `if` statements may be nested.

A current limitation is that a parameter specification can only appear once
per feature, and so, for example, cannot appear with different annotations in
different branches of an `if` statement. If this behavior is desired, we
recommend you use two different parameter names, and merge them inside the
function.

## Description

A description can be added to a feature or parameter through the `”Feature
Type Description”` or `”Description”` fields (respectively) in the annotation
map.

Descriptions are displayed in the "Search Tools" panel and in the
feature/parameter tooltip.

Descriptions can be split up into multiple lines using the `~` operator, and
their content can contain basic HTML tags, but not images or external links.

    
    
    annotation { "Feature Type Name" : "Slot",
                 "Feature Type Description" : "Creates a rectangular slot in a selected part.<br>" ~
                                              "This feature is an <b>example</b>"
     }
    export const myFeature = defineFeature(function(context is Context, id is Id, definition is map)
        precondition
        {
                annotation { "Name" : "Slot length",
                             "Description" : "Distance from the slot's end to its furthest extent along the outside of the part" }
                isLength(definition.slotLength, LENGTH_BOUNDS);
        }
    ...
    

![Feature description display](tutorials/images/feature-description.png)
![Parameter description display](tutorials/images/parameter-description.png)

## Icons

A custom feature icon is specified by [uploading the icon as an SVG blob tab
and referencing it](imports.html#importing-external-data):

    
    
    IconNamespace::import(...);
    
    annotation { "Feature Type Name" : "MyFeature", "Icon" : IconNamespace::BLOB_DATA }
    export const myFeature = defineFeature(function(context is Context, id is Id, definition is map)
    ...
    

An enum or quantity parameter icon is specified analogously:

    
    
    annotation { "Name" : "My Length", "Icon" : IconNamespace::BLOB_DATA }
    isLength(definition.myLength, LENGTH_BOUNDS);
    

![Quantity with icon](tutorials/images/quantity-parameter-icon.png)

Feature icons are displayed in grayscale to be consistent with our standard
feature icons, whereas parameter icons allow color.

It is also possible to reference parameter icons that are used by the standard
Onshape features. Instead of specifying an imported blob resource, an entry in
the [`Icon` enum](library.html#Icon) may be used as the value of any `"Icon"`
annotation field, as in the example below, which adds icons to the values of
an enum parameter:

    
    
    export enum AxisEnum {
        annotation { "Name" : "Along X", "Icon" : Icon.ALONG_X }
        ALONG_X,
        annotation { "Name" : "Along Y", "Icon" : Icon.ALONG_Y }
        ALONG_Y,
        annotation { "Name" : "Along Z", "Icon" : Icon.ALONG_Z }
        ALONG_Z
    }
    ...
    annotation { "Name" : "Axis" }
    definition.axis is AxisEnum;
    

![Enum values with icons](tutorials/images/enum-parameter-value-icons.png)

## Description images

A custom feature description image is specified by [uploading the image as a
JPG, PNG, or SVG blob tab and referencing it](imports.html#importing-external-
data):

    
    
    ImageNamespace::import(...);
    
    annotation { "Feature Type Name" : "MyFeature", "Description Image" : ImageNamespace::BLOB_DATA }
    export const myFeature = defineFeature(function(context is Context, id is Id, definition is map)
    ...
    

The example below demonstrates the Fillet Everything custom feature with a
"Description", an "Icon", and a screen capture of the feature in the Part
Studio display imported into the document for reuse as the feature's
"Description Image".

![Feature description image display in toolip](tutorials/images/feature-
description-image-tooltip.png) ![Feature description image display in Search
panel](tutorials/images/feature-description-image-search.png)

Feature description images are displayed following the feature description in
the feature tooltip and in the "Search Tools" panel. Features can have
description images, but unlike icons, parameters cannot. The description image
will be displayed in its native size if possible, but will be shrunk uniformly
to fit in the two areas it is displayed. Both areas are typically close to
300px by 300px, so images near that size work well.

## Manipulator change function

The manipulator change function allows you to specify manipulator behavior in
a very flexible way. It is typically declared as:

    
    
    export function onManipulatorChange(context is Context, definition is map, newManipulators is map) returns map
    {
        // modify the definition based on what's in newManipulators
        ...
    
        return definition;
    }
    

The idea is that when the feature regenerates, it defines some manipulators
using `addManipulators` to be shown on the screen. When a user drags one of
these manipulators, the manipulator change function gets called. It can look
at the context, the feature definition, and the manipulator changes, and
change the feature definition in response. Thus, a manipulator does not have
to be tied to a particular parameter and could modify a group of parameters
all at once.

See the [manipulator module](library.html#module-manipulator.fs) for a simple
example.

### Manipulator change function arguments

  * The `context` is passed in at a state immediately prior to the feature. After the manipulator change function is executed, it will be rolled back to that same state, so changes made to the context will not persist.
  * The `definition` map is almost exactly as passed into the feature function. The difference is that if the feature specifies programmatic defaults for some parameters, they will not be applied prior to the manipulator change function call.
  * The `newManipulators` map has exactly one entry. The key is one of the manipulator id strings that were passed into the `addManipulators` function when the feature regenerated. The value is a `Manipulator` that corresponds to the new value of the manipulator; it's the same as the value that was passed into `addManipulators` during regeneration, with the exception of some parameters that change as a result of the manipulator interaction:
    * `offset` for the `LINEAR_1D` and `LINEAR_3D` (triad) manipulators
    * `angle` for the `ANGULAR` manipulator
    * `flipped` for the `FLIP` manipulator
    * `transform` for the `TRIAD_FULL` manipulator

### Manipulator change function return value

The return value is a map like `definition` with some of the parameters
modified. The parameter types that can be changed are:

  * Boolean
  * String
  * Enum
  * Query
  * LookupTablePath
  * Quantity: can be specified either as a value (`ValueWithUnits` if appropriate) or, unless the quantity is `isAnything`, as a `string`. If a `string` is used, Onshape will set the expression for the quantity to that string. For instance, the returned definition might include `width : "3/8 in"` so that the user sees that instead of "0.375 in".

## Editing logic function

If an editing logic function is specified, it is called whenever the feature
definition is changed either explicitly by the user or with a manipulator (but
see isCreating in arguments). It can make additional feature definition
changes based on the context and the users' edits. The editing logic function
is primarily intended for setting default parameters in an intelligent manner.

For example, the `modifyFillet` feature in `std/modifyFillet.fs` uses it to
set the fillet radius based on the current radius of the selected fillet. The
`extrude` feature uses it to set the opposite direction parameter as well as
the boolean merge scope. The `cPlane` feature uses it to set the plane type
based on the preselection.

A word of caution: it is easy to abuse the editing logic function to create a
user experience that is more annoying than helpful. Enjoy editing logic
responsibly.

### Editing logic function arguments

An editing logic function may have between four and seven arguments. A
declaration with seven arguments looks like:

    
    
    export function onFeatureChange(context is Context, id is Id, oldDefinition is map, definition is map,
                                    isCreating is boolean, specifiedParameters is map, hiddenBodies is Query) returns map
    {
        // modify the definition
        ...
    
        return definition;
    }
    

The first four arguments are required.

  * The `context` is passed in at a state immediately prior to the feature. After the editing logic function is executed, it will be rolled back to that same state, so changes made to the context will not persist.
  * The `id` is the feature id in question.
  * The `oldDefinition` map is the feature definition prior to the changes that caused the editing logic function to be invoked. If the feature specifies programmatic defaults for some parameters, they will not be applied prior to the editing logic function call.
  * The `definition` map is the feature definition that includes the changes that caused the editing logic function to be invoked. As above, defaults are not applied. A no-op editing logic function just returns the unmodified definition. The editing logic function can tell if a parameter has been changed by comparing its value in `definition` and `oldDefinition`.

Any (or all) of the remaining three arguments may be omitted, but those that
remain must appear in the same order relative to each other. Omitting unused
arguments may result in better performance.

  * The `isCreating` boolean is set to `true` if the feature is being created and `false` if it is being edited, having been committed at least once. **Note:** If `isCreating` is omitted, the editing logic function will only be called when the feature is being created.
  * The `specifiedParameters` map indicates which parameters have been set by the user since the feature dialog opened. The ids of those parameters that have been specified map to true and those that have not map to false.
  * The `hiddenBodies` query evaluates to all of the bodies have been hidden by the user (that information is not accessible from the context). It is used for example to avoid automatically adding invisible bodies to an `extrude` merge scope.
  * The `clickedButton` string indicates which button parameter was clicked to trigger the editing logic function. If no button was clicked, `clickedButton` is the empty string.

### Editing logic function return value

The return value is a map following the same rules as the return value for the
manipulator change function.

  *[API]: Application Programming Interface
  *[TL;DR]: Too long; didn't read.

