---
url: https://openscad.org/libraries.html#a2d
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T16:27:04.061879
title: General
---

# General

![](images/bosl.gif)

## BOSL

The Belfry OpenScad Library - A library of tools, shapes, and helpers to make
OpenScad easier to use.

  * [Library](https://github.com/revarbat/BOSL)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/revarbat/BOSL/wiki)
  * License: [BSD-2-Clause](https://spdx.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause.html)

![](images/bosl2.gif)

## BOSL2 (beta)

Belfry OpenScad Library v2 - A library of tools, shapes, and helpers to make
OpenScad easier to use.

  * [Library](https://github.com/BelfrySCAD/BOSL2/)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/BelfrySCAD/BOSL2/wiki)
  * [Tutorials](https://github.com/BelfrySCAD/BOSL2/wiki/Tutorials)
  * License: [BSD-2-Clause](https://spdx.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause.html)

![](images/dotscad.gif)

## dotSCAD

Reduce the burden of 3D modeling in mathematics.

  * [Library](https://github.com/JustinSDK/dotSCAD)
  * [Documentation](https://openhome.cc/eGossip/OpenSCAD/)
  * License: [LGPL-3.0-only](https://spdx.org/licenses/LGPL-3.0-only.html)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nophead/NopSCADlib/master/libtest.png)

## NopSCADlib

An ever expanding library of parts modelled in OpenSCAD useful for 3D printers
and enclosures for electronics, etc.

  * [Library](https://github.com/nophead/NopSCADlib)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/nophead/NopSCADlib/blob/master/readme.md)
  * License: [GPL-3.0-or-later](https://spdx.org/licenses/GPL-3.0-or-later.html)

![](images/ub.gif)

## UB.scad

This library is a full 3D printing workflow solution for OpenSCAD, bringing
tools for modifying and generating 3D objects, view helpers and a selection of
mechanical parts.

  * [Library](https://github.com/UBaer21/UB.scad)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/UBaer21/UB.scad/blob/main/README.md)
  * License: [CC0-1.0](https://spdx.org/licenses/CC0-1.0.html)

![](images/functional_openscad.gif)

## Functional OpenSCAD

Implementing OpenSCAD in OpenSCAD.

  * [Library](https://github.com/thehans/FunctionalOpenSCAD)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/thehans/FunctionalOpenSCAD/blob/master/README.md)
  * License: [MIT](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT.html)

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/solidboredom/constructive/main/img/mount.gif)

## Constructive Library

Extends OpenScad Language for complex and complementary mechanical parts with
less mathematical code. Offers a "Stamping" approach to quickly create
mechanical parts fitting and complementing one another. This is used as a
replacement for Constraints known form other CAD systems.

  * [Library](https://github.com/solidboredom/constructive)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/solidboredom/constructive/blob/main/README.md)
  * Tutorials: [Basics](https://github.com/solidboredom/constructive/blob/main/tutorials/basic-tutorial.md), [Part II](https://github.com/solidboredom/constructive/blob/main/tutorials/tutorial-partII.md), [Part III](https://github.com/solidboredom/constructive/blob/main/tutorials/tutorial-partIII.md)
  * License: [GPL-2.0-only](https://spdx.org/licenses/GPL-2.0-only.html)

![](images/stone-age-lib.gif)

## StoneAgeLib

StoneAgeLib - All sorts of scripts for OpenSCAD. The scripts are for 3D models
for 3D printing.

An important aspect of this library is the CC0 (Public Domain) license.

This library is for a OpenSCAD version of at least 2025 with the features
turned on and using "Manifold".

  * [Library](https://github.com/Stone-Age-Sculptor/StoneAgeLib)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/Stone-Age-Sculptor/StoneAgeLib/tree/main/examples)
  * License: [CC0-1.0](https://spdx.org/licenses/CC0-1.0.html)

![](images/bolts.gif)

## BOLTS

BOLTS is an Open Library of Technical Specifications.

  * [Library](https://github.com/boltsparts/BOLTS)
  * [Documentation](https://boltsparts.github.io/en/index.html)
  * License: [LGPL-2.1-or-later](https://spdx.org/licenses/LGPL-2.1-or-later.html) | [GPL-3.0-only](https://spdx.org/licenses/GPL-3.0-only.html)

![](images/angelo-nicoli-assets.gif)

## Asset Collection

A collection of OpenSCAD Scripts. There are some mechanical parts, as well as
furniture and models that can be used as base mesh for 3D animations and game
design.

  * [Library](https://github.com/AngeloNicoli/OpenSCAD-Snippet)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/AngeloNicoli/OpenSCAD-Snippet/blob/main/README.md)
  * License: [MIT](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT.html)

# Single Topic

![](images/round-anything.gif)

## Round Anything

Round-Anything is primarily a set of OpenSCAD utilities that help with
rounding parts, but it also embodies a robust approach to developing OpenSCAD
parts.

  * [Library](https://github.com/Irev-Dev/Round-Anything)
  * [Overview](https://learn.cadhub.xyz/docs/round-anything/overview/) \- _A pragmatic approach to OpenSCAD design_
  * [Documentation](https://learn.cadhub.xyz/docs/round-anything/api-reference/) \- _API reference and examples_
  * License: [MIT](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT.html)

![](images/marks-enclosure-helper.gif)

## Mark's Enclosure Helper

A script for generating a two piece hinged box, with rounded corners, lid,
interlocking rims, snap fit, magnet, or screw closures, and easy places for
adding cutouts or additions to any face..

  * [Library](https://github.com/sbambach/MarksEnclosureHelper)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/sbambach/MarksEnclosureHelper/blob/master/REFERENCE.md)
  * License: [GPL-3.0-only](https://spdx.org/licenses/GPL-3.0-only.html)

## funcutils

This library is a collection of OpenSCAD functions for use with the function-
literals feature. It is meant to provide algorithms and tools to help build
efficient scripts using functional programming techniques in OpenSCAD.

  * [Library](https://github.com/thehans/funcutils)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/thehans/funcutils/blob/master/README.md)
  * License: [CC0-1.0](https://spdx.org/licenses/CC0-1.0.html)

![](images/rcolyer_threads.gif)

## OpenSCAD threads.scad Module

This is an efficient OpenSCAD threading library intended primarily to be used
as a component in other designs. It supports metric compatible internal and
external threads, auger threads, thread tapering, clearance holes, countersunk
holes, recessed holes, hex bolts, nuts, washers, Phillips tips, and long rods
which are extended with threaded joints. Whenever possible this complies with
metric standards for the defaults of parameters, while providing overrides for
many values.

  * [Library](https://github.com/rcolyer/threads-scad)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/rcolyer/threads-scad/blob/master/README.md)
  * License: [CC0-1.0](https://spdx.org/licenses/CC0-1.0.html)

![](images/rcolyer_smooth_prim.gif)

## OpenSCAD Smooth Primitives Library

This library is a collection of some smooth primitives, i.e. having specified
rounded edges, for use in other designs. It's not a comprehensive collection,
but a useful set.

  * [Library](https://github.com/rcolyer/smooth-prim)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/rcolyer/smooth-prim/blob/master/README.md)
  * License: [CC0-1.0](https://spdx.org/licenses/CC0-1.0.html)

![](images/rcolyer_plot_function.gif)

## OpenSCAD Function Plotting Library

This is a general purpose function plotting library for OpenSCAD which will
render functions with Cartesian coordinates (x & y input, z output),
polar/cylindrical coordinates (r & angle input, z output), or axial
coordinates (z & angle input, r output). This library is sufficiently flexible
that it can be used for more than just plotting functions. As demonstrated in
the included demo files, this can efficiently render ordinary objects with
surfaces defined by mathematical functions.

  * [Library](https://github.com/rcolyer/plot-function)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/rcolyer/plot-function/blob/master/README.md)
  * License: [CC0-1.0](https://spdx.org/licenses/CC0-1.0.html)

![](images/rcolyer_closepoints.gif)

## OpenSCAD ClosePoints Library

This is a general purpose OpenSCAD library for easily creating diverse shapes
by simply creating lists of points which trace out layers in an outline of the
desired shape. The library consists of modules for creating polyhedrons from
these lists of points, as well as functions to assist in specifying the points
using transformations.

  * [Library](https://github.com/rcolyer/closepoints)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/rcolyer/closepoints/blob/master/README.md)
  * License: [CC0-1.0](https://spdx.org/licenses/CC0-1.0.html)

![](images/sofian_tray.gif)

## Tray Library

Allows the design of trays with optional subdivisions. Many different
configuration options available. Designed to quickly create trays with
different configurations, for efficient storing of parts, such as hardware,
small tools, board game inserts, etc..

  * [Library](https://github.com/sofian/openscad-tray)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/sofian/openscad-tray/blob/main/README.md)
  * License: [LGPL-3.0-or-later](https://spdx.org/licenses/LGPL-3.0-or-later.html)

![](images/yapp.gif)

## Yet Another Parametric Projectbox generator

A generator for electronic project boxes, based on a definition of a PCB and
lots of options for defining PCB standoffs and case cutouts.

  * [Library](https://github.com/mrWheel/YAPP_Box)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/mrWheel/YAPP_Box/blob/main/README.md)
  * License: [MIT](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT.html)

![](images/stemfie.gif)

## STEMFIE Parts Library

OpenSCAD library to create parts for the [STEMFIE
project](https://www.stemfie.org/).

[STEMFIE](https://www.stemfie.org/) is a free educational construction-set toy
you can download and make at home using a 3D printer. Each component is a part
of a mechanical ecosystem of compatible shapes designed to interlock through
various connections and fasteners.

  * [STEMFIE project](https://www.stemfie.org/)
  * [Library](https://github.com/Cantareus/Stemfie_OpenSCAD)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/Cantareus/Stemfie_OpenSCAD/blob/main/docs/stemfie.scad.md)
  * License: [GPL-3.0-or-later](https://spdx.org/licenses/GPL-3.0-or-later.html)

![](images/catchnhole.gif)

## Catch'n'Hole

An ergonomic way to create nutcatches, screw holes and countersinks in
OpenSCAD.

  * [Library](https://github.com/mmalecki/catchnhole)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/mmalecki/catchnhole/blob/latest/README.md)
  * License: [MIT](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT.html)

![](images/pathbuilder.gif)

## Pathbuilder

A fast way to create complex 2D shapes with fillets and chamfers using SVG
syntax. Supports the full SVG syntax.

  * [Library](https://github.com/dinther/pathbuilder)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/dinther/pathbuilder/blob/main/README.md)
  * [Wiki](https://github.com/dinther/pathbuilder/wiki)
  * License: [MIT](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT.html)

![](images/scon.gif)

## SCON - JSON for OpenSCAD

SCON is a convenient configuration data subset for OpenSCAD similar to JSON
for Javascript.

  * [Library](https://github.com/wmacevoy/openscad-scon/)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/wmacevoy/openscad-scon/blob/main/README.md)
  * License: [MIT](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT.html)

## Altair's 2D Library for OpenSCAD

A library of useful functions, modules and constants for 2D drawing in
OpenSCAD.

  * [Library](https://github.com/ridercz/A2D)
  * [Documentation](https://github.com/ridercz/A2D/wiki)
  * License: [MIT](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT.html)

