---
url: https://freecad.github.io/SourceDoc/dd/db7/classconfig__control__design_1_1contract__type.html
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T15:21:07.064677
title: Untitled
---

  * [ ![](https://www.freecad.org/svg/logo-freecad.svg) ](https://freecadweb.org "FreeCAD")
  * [Index](../../index.html "Index")
  * [Modules](../../modules.html "Modules list")
  * [Classes](../../annotated.html "Annotated list")

  * [config_control_design](../../d4/d07/namespaceconfig__control__design.html)
  * [contract_type](../../dd/db7/classconfig__control__design_1_1contract__type.html)

[List of all members](../../dd/dc1/classconfig__control__design_1_1contract__type-members.html) | Public Member Functions | Public Attributes

config_control_design.contract_type Class Reference

##  Public Member Functions  
  
---  
def | [description](../../dd/db7/classconfig__control__design_1_1contract__type.html#abe0e70ca29b0b0e3718a9281b6825a35) ()  
  
##  Public Attributes  
  
---  
|
[description](../../dd/db7/classconfig__control__design_1_1contract__type.html#aec1b270ec38458ad78f0879afbd75140)  
  
## Detailed Description

    
    
    Entity contract_type definition.
    
        :param description
        :type description:label

## Member Function Documentation

## â—† description()

def config_control_design.contract_type.description  | ( | | ) |   
---|---|---|---|---  
  
References App::Metadata._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.characterized_object._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.representation_item_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.identification_role._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.functionally_defined_transformation._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.versioned_action_request._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.geometric_tolerance._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.general_property._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.representation_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.product_definition_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.time_interval._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.action_directive._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.concept_feature_operator._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.configuration_item_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.descriptive_representation_item._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.product_concept_feature_association._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.group._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.product_definition._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.shape_aspect._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.product_category._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.shape_aspect_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.uncertainty_qualifier._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.organizational_address._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.data_environment._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.product_concept._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.general_property_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.group_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.item_identified_representation_usage._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.product_definition_formation_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.item_defined_transformation._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.product_definition_formation._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.annotation_occurrence_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.event_occurrence_role._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.draughting_callout_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.uncertainty_measure_with_unit._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.event_occurrence_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.property_definition._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.presentation_layer_assignment._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.concept_feature_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.event_occurrence._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.configuration_item._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.organization_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.action_method_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.contract_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.geometric_tolerance_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.product_concept_feature._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.text_font_family._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.product_definition_substitute._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.time_interval_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.document._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.action_method._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.externally_defined_item_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.effectivity_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.organizational_project_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.text_font._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.product_definition_context_role._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.property_definition_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.action_property._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.document_product_association._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.product._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.classification_role._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.general_property_association._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.action_method_role._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.personal_address._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.document_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.external_source_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.action._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.organizational_project._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.action_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.time_interval_role._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.attribute_value_role._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.contract_type._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.document_usage_role._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.product_concept_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.organization._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.effectivity_context_role._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.certification_type._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.measure_qualification._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.product_definition_occurrence_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.object_role._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.approval_relationship._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.material_designation_characterization._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.action_property_representation._description,
ap203_configuration_controlled_3d_design_of_mechanical_parts_and_assemblies_mim_lf.organizational_project_role._description,
automotive_design.characterized_object._description,
automotive_design.identification_role._description,
automotive_design.functionally_defined_transformation._description,
automotive_design.versioned_action_request._description,
automotive_design.geometric_tolerance._description,
automotive_design.product_definition_relationship._description,
automotive_design.action_resource._description,
automotive_design.product_definition._description,
automotive_design.resource_property_representation._description,
automotive_design.time_interval._description,
automotive_design.action_directive._description,
automotive_design.event_occurrence_context_role._description,
automotive_design.shape_aspect._description,
automotive_design.shape_aspect_relationship._description,
automotive_design.concept_feature_operator._description,
automotive_design.property_definition._description,
automotive_design.item_defined_transformation._description,
automotive_design.product_concept_feature_association._description,
automotive_design.general_property._description,
automotive_design.product_category._description,
automotive_design.uncertainty_qualifier._description,
automotive_design.organizational_address._description,
automotive_design.data_environment._description,
automotive_design.product_concept._description,
automotive_design.group_relationship._description,
automotive_design.item_identified_representation_usage._description,
automotive_design.product_definition_formation_relationship._description,
automotive_design.representation_relationship._description,
automotive_design.action._description,
automotive_design.product_definition_formation._description,
automotive_design.descriptive_representation_item._description,
automotive_design.event_occurrence_role._description,
automotive_design.draughting_callout_relationship._description,
automotive_design.process_property_association._description,
automotive_design.group._description,
automotive_design.uncertainty_measure_with_unit._description,
automotive_design.action_resource_requirement._description,
automotive_design.presentation_layer_assignment._description,
automotive_design.concept_feature_relationship._description,
automotive_design.event_occurrence._description,
automotive_design.configuration_item._description,
automotive_design.organization_relationship._description,
automotive_design.action_method._description,
automotive_design.geometric_tolerance_relationship._description,
automotive_design.product_concept_feature._description,
automotive_design.product_definition_substitute._description,
automotive_design.document._description,
automotive_design.versioned_action_request_relationship._description,
automotive_design.product_category_relationship._description,
automotive_design.application_context_relationship._description,
automotive_design.externally_defined_item_relationship._description,
automotive_design.effectivity_relationship._description,
automotive_design.organizational_project_relationship._description,
automotive_design.product_definition_context_role._description,
automotive_design.property_definition_relationship._description,
automotive_design.action_property._description,
automotive_design.document_product_association._description,
automotive_design.product._description,
automotive_design.classification_role._description,
automotive_design.general_property_association._description,
automotive_design.personal_address._description,
automotive_design.document_relationship._description,
automotive_design.resource_requirement_type._description,
automotive_design.organizational_project._description,
automotive_design.action_relationship._description,
automotive_design.time_interval_role._description,
automotive_design.action_method_relationship._description,
automotive_design.attribute_value_role._description,
automotive_design.contract_type._description,
automotive_design.document_usage_role._description,
automotive_design.resource_property._description,
automotive_design.process_product_association._description,
automotive_design.product_concept_relationship._description,
automotive_design.organization._description,
automotive_design.effectivity_context_role._description,
automotive_design.certification_type._description,
automotive_design.measure_qualification._description,
automotive_design.annotation_occurrence_relationship._description,
automotive_design.product_definition_occurrence_relationship._description,
automotive_design.object_role._description,
automotive_design.approval_relationship._description,
automotive_design.general_property_relationship._description,
automotive_design.material_designation_characterization._description,
automotive_design.action_property_representation._description,
automotive_design.organizational_project_role._description,
config_control_design.functionally_defined_transformation._description,
config_control_design.versioned_action_request._description,
config_control_design.product_definition_relationship._description,
config_control_design.action_directive._description,
config_control_design.product_category._description,
config_control_design.organizational_address._description,
config_control_design.document._description,
config_control_design.product_definition_formation._description,
config_control_design.uncertainty_measure_with_unit._description,
config_control_design.representation_relationship._description,
config_control_design.property_definition._description,
config_control_design.organization_relationship._description,
config_control_design.configuration_item._description,
config_control_design.item_defined_transformation._description,
config_control_design.action_method._description,
config_control_design.product_category_relationship._description,
config_control_design.product._description,
config_control_design.shape_aspect_relationship._description,
config_control_design.personal_address._description,
config_control_design.document_relationship._description,
config_control_design.action._description,
config_control_design.organizational_project._description,
config_control_design.contract_type._description,
config_control_design.product_concept._description,
config_control_design.product_definition._description,
config_control_design.organization._description,
config_control_design.certification_type._description,
config_control_design.shape_aspect._description,
config_control_design.approval_relationship._description,
ifc2x3.ifcroot._description, ifc2x3.ifcproperty._description,
ifc2x3.ifcpropertyconstraintrelationship._description,
ifc2x3.ifcshapeaspect._description,
ifc2x3.ifcdocumentinformation._description, ifc2x3.ifcaddress._description,
ifc2x3.ifcproductrepresentation._description,
ifc2x3.ifcphysicalquantity._description, ifc2x3.ifcorganization._description,
ifc2x3.ifcconstraint._description,
ifc2x3.ifcpropertydependencyrelationship._description,
ifc2x3.ifcappliedvalue._description,
ifc2x3.ifcdraughtingcalloutrelationship._description,
ifc2x3.ifcactorrole._description,
ifc2x3.ifcextendedmaterialproperties._description,
ifc2x3.ifcreferencesvaluedocument._description,
ifc2x3.ifcconstraintrelationship._description,
ifc2x3.ifcapproval._description, ifc2x3.ifctimeseries._description,
ifc2x3.ifcorganizationrelationship._description,
ifc2x3.ifcconstraintaggregationrelationship._description,
ifc2x3.ifcapprovalrelationship._description,
ifc2x3.ifcpresentationlayerassignment._description,
ifc2x3.ifcappliedvaluerelationship._description, ifc4.ifcroot._description,
ifc4.ifcresourcelevelrelationship._description, ifc4.ifcproperty._description,
ifc4.ifcclassificationreference._description, ifc4.ifcmaterial._description,
ifc4.ifcmaterialprofile._description, ifc4.ifcshapeaspect._description,
ifc4.ifcdocumentinformation._description, ifc4.ifcaddress._description,
ifc4.ifcproductrepresentation._description,
ifc4.ifcmateriallayerset._description, ifc4.ifcphysicalquantity._description,
ifc4.ifcorganization._description, ifc4.ifcconstraint._description,
ifc4.ifcappliedvalue._description, ifc4.ifcmateriallayer._description,
ifc4.ifcextendedproperties._description, ifc4.ifcclassification._description,
ifc4.ifcactorrole._description, ifc4.ifcmaterialconstituent._description,
ifc4.ifccoordinatereferencesystem._description, ifc4.ifcapproval._description,
ifc4.ifclibraryreference._description, ifc4.ifctimeseries._description,
ifc4.ifcmaterialconstituentset._description,
ifc4.ifcdocumentreference._description,
ifc4.ifcmaterialprofileset._description, ifc4.ifctablecolumn._description,
ifc4.ifcpresentationlayerassignment._description, and
ifc4.ifclibraryinformation._description.

Referenced by
[Addon.Addon.set_metadata()](../../d8/d91/classAddon_1_1Addon.html#a799523f4861c30f1516a59602d5b77cd),
and
[Addon.Addon.to_cache()](../../d8/d91/classAddon_1_1Addon.html#aba84dd320889a7cb37c99a8b8cdc87f5).

## Member Data Documentation

## â—† description

config_control_design.contract_type.description  
---  
  
Referenced by
[Addon.Addon.set_metadata()](../../d8/d91/classAddon_1_1Addon.html#a799523f4861c30f1516a59602d5b77cd),
and
[Addon.Addon.to_cache()](../../d8/d91/classAddon_1_1Addon.html#aba84dd320889a7cb37c99a8b8cdc87f5).

* * *

The documentation for this class was generated from the following file:

  * FreeCAD/src/Mod/Import/App/config_control_design.py

* * *

Generated by
[![doxygen](../../doxygen.svg)](https://www.doxygen.org/index.html) 1.9.4

