---
url: https://freecad.github.io/SourceDoc/dc/db4/group__PATH.html
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T14:52:09.833156
title: Untitled
---

  * [ ![](https://www.freecad.org/svg/logo-freecad.svg) ](https://freecadweb.org "FreeCAD")
  * [Index](../../index.html "Index")
  * [Modules](../../modules.html "Modules list")
  * [Classes](../../annotated.html "Annotated list")

Modules

Path

[Workbenches](../../d2/df2/group__WORKBENCHES.html) Â» [Python
workbenches](../../d1/d82/group__PYTHONWORKBENCHES.html)

Tools to generate CNC toolpaths and G-Code. More...

##  Modules  
  
---  
| [Parameters helper macros](../../dc/dbe/group__ParamHelper.html)  
| Collections of macros for managing groups of parameters.  
  
  
## Detailed Description

Tools to generate CNC toolpaths and G-Code.

### Parameter helper macros

#  Motivation

For an application like FreeCAD, there are often cases where the same set of
parameters are referred in dozons of different places. The macros here is
designed to help managing those parameters, so that you can define groups of
parameters once, and refer them everywhere in groups with simple macro calls
for all kinds of purposes. Any changing, adding and removing of parameters in
the group become much easier. And by everywhere, I mean [class definition,
implementation](../../d7/d78/group__ParamCommon.html), [document object
properties](../../d1/d20/group__ParamProperty.html), [python c++
classes](../../de/df2/group__ParamPy.html), and even [doc
string](../../da/d6a/group__ParamDoc.html), pretty much everything except the
python code, which although not implemented yet, is in fact also possible to
be done using C preprocessor (No one says C preprocessor must produce C code
:). It is also possible (not implemented yet) to use macros to generate python
wrapper class instead of using FreeCAD's current xml python export.

#  Debugging

Extensive use of macros has one noticeable disadvantage, though. If some thing
goes wrong, the compiler error message is kind of cryptic. If so, first double
check your macro definition of the parameter is correctly, not missing or
having extra parathesis or comma. Then, you can use the CMake intermediate
file target to get the preprocessor output for checking. For example, for a
file located at `src/Mod/Path/App/Area.cpp`,

cd <your_build_dir>/src/Mod/Path/App

make Area.cpp.i

The preprocessed intermediate output will be at,

<your_build_dir>/src/Mod/Path/App.CMakeFiles/Path.dir/Area.cpp.i

#  Introduction

The macros here make heavy use of the awesome
[Boost.Preprocessor](http://www.boost.org/libs/preprocessor/) (short for
Boost.PP). Here are is a brief introduction on Boost.PP concept in order to
explain why this marco library is designed the way it is.

In Boost.PP, a sequence is defined as,

(a)(b)(c)...

A sequence cannot be empty. Thus, ``() is not a sequence. And also those `a,
b, c` here cannot directly contain `,`. These restriction is due to the fact
that `( ) ,` are among those very few special characters recognized by the
preprocssor. `a` can itself be a sequence or other Boost.PP types, so by
right, our parameter can be defined as something like

((type)(name)(default)...)

A bit awkward to write. So another Boost.PP type is chosen, tuple, to define
each individual parameter. A tuple is defined as

(a,b,c ...)

This is why the parameter definition requires a double parathesis, as shown in
the following section.

#  Overview

In this macro library, a parameter is defined using a tuple inside a sequence,

((<type>, <arg>, <name>, <default>, <doc>, <seq>, <info>))

  * `type` is the type of the parameter. Currently only five types of parameters are defined, `short, long, double, bool, enum, enum2`. 

* * *

Generated by
[![doxygen](../../doxygen.svg)](https://www.doxygen.org/index.html) 1.9.4

