---
url: https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/#project-name
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T16:05:13.452732
title: Untitled
---

[RhinoDeveloperÂ®](/)

[design, model, present, analyze, realize...](/)

[![Rhino Logo](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/rhinodevlogo.png)](/)

__

[Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides)
[Samples](https://developer.rhino3d.com/samples)
[API](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api)
[Videos](https://developer.rhino3d.com/videos)
[Community](https://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rhino-developer) [my account
](https://www.rhino3d.com/my-account/ "Manage your account, licenses, and
teams")

[Creating Rhino/Grasshopper Script
Plugins](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/)

  * Create a Project
  * Add Commands
    * Grasshopper Previews
    * Special Variables
  * Add Components
  * Components Types: Script
    * Required Inputs
    * Output Previews
  * Components Types: Contextual
    * Inputs and Outputs
    * Grasshopper Previews
  * Project Info
    * Project Id
    * Project Name and Icon
    * Project Version
    * Project Authors
    * Project Copyright, License, and URL
  * Commands
    * Name and Icon
    * Type (Style)
    * Excluding Commands
  * Components
    * Name and Icon
    * Panel Name (Sub-Category)
    * Exposure
    * Excluding Components
  * Component Versioning
    * Legacy and New
  * Shared Libraries
    * What is a Library
    * Add Language Libraries
    * Reference Libraries
  * Shared Resources
    * Add Shared Resources
    * Find Shared Resource
  * Projects in Explorer

[Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/en/guides/) / [Scripting
Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/en/guides/scripting/) /

Creating Rhino/Grasshopper Script Plugins

[New in 8](https://developer.rhino3d.com/8/new)

by [Ehsan Iran-Nejad](https://discourse.mcneel.com/u/eirannejad/) (Last
updated: Wednesday, November 13, 2024)

Rhino Script Editor is designed to utilize the widespread plugin
infrastructure in both Rhino and Grasshopper, and generate plugins from your
scripts.

Script editor can:

  * Convert scripts into Rhino commands and publish as Rhino plugin (`.rhp` file)
  * Convert scripts into Grasshopper components and publish as Grasshopper plugin (`.gha` file)
  * Create a Yak package and publish on Rhino package server

It can also:

  * Generate toolbar layout files for published Rhino commands (`.rui` file)
  * Share code libraries and data files with published commands or components
  * Generate dotnet project solution for published plugins for furthur customization (`.sln` and `.csproj` files)

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/create-
project.svg)

## Create a Project

To create a project:

  * Run `ScriptEditor` command

  * Choose **Create Project** from main _File_ menu

  * Navigate to where you would like to save the project. Project file will be stored with `.rhproj` extension

  * Editor displays **Edit Project** dialog.

This dialog highlights the most important pieces of information about the new
project:

    * **Id** : Unique UUID of this project. It should not be changed. See [Project Id](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/#project-id)
    * **Name** : Plugins will be published with this name. See [Project Name](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/#project-name)
    * **Version** : Plugins will be published with this version. See [Project Version](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/#project-version)
    * **Author** : This is required and if there are no authors available, this field will show a _No Author_ error. See [Project Authors](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/#project-authors)

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
edit-info.png)

  * Choose **Save Changes**
  * Project file is now saved and editor opens the **Projects** panel on the left browser tray

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
open-in-tray.png)

  * Now that the project saved and open, we can add command and components. We will get a chance to edit project information before publishing the project as plugins.

## Add Commands

To add a command, click on the **+** icon on the _Project Tray_ toolbar and
select **Add Commands/** item:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
commands-add-button.png)

You can also right-click on the **Commands/** to add new commands:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
commands-add-rclick.png)

You can select a single or multiple scripts and add them to the project. Once
scripts are added, they are opened in the editor and a black circle appears in
front of project name in _Project Tray_ to show that project is modified and
must be saved. Click the Save Project button in _Project Tray_ toolbar to save
the project:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
commands-added.png)

__Note __

Rhino commands can be created from Grasshopper scripts that contain contextual
inputs and outputs. In the example above, `Script_C` is a Grasshopper 1
definition (`Script_C.gh`) that contains two contextual integer inputs and a
contextual print output component.

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
commands-gh1.png)

See [Run Published
Commands](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-
publish/#run-published-commands) for information on how the inputs are
collected on Rhino command line.

During build, each script under **Commands/** is converted into a Rhino
command. The script name is the default name of the command. See [Project
Commands](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-
create/#commands) for information on editing command, assigning icons, and
changing command types.

To remove a command, select the command in _Project Tray_ and click the trash
button on the toolbar:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
commands-remove.png)

### Grasshopper Previews

Grasshopper calls the components and parameters on the canvas to draw previews
and follows the drawing settings and mode that is stored in the document. You
can change the mode and settings for each document from the Grasshopper UI.
Component previews are also configurable, and there is a _Custom Preview_
component available as well.

This means that you can customize how your Grasshopper definition previews the
geometry it is working with. When running a published command that embeds a
Grasshopper definition, previews are drawn in Rhino viewport, in the same way
as Grasshopper UI would draw the previews, while command is asking for inputs.

This is an example of a Grasshopper definition that creates a sphere at given
point. It draws its own preview of the sphere using _Custom Preview_
component:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
commands-ghpreview_def.png)

When publishing this Grasshopper definition as a Rhino command and running
that command, the same preview is drawn while Rhino is asking for the input
point:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
commands-ghpreview_run.gif)

### Special Variables

There are a few builtin variables available when published scripts are
executed as Rhino commands:

  * `__rhino_command__` ([Rhino.Commands.Command](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api/rhinocommon/rhino.commands.command)): Rhino command instance. This is the automatically generated command in your plugin, that contains and runs its embedded script.
  * `__rhino_doc__` ([Rhino.RhinoDoc](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api/rhinocommon/rhino.rhinodoc)): Active document the command is running on
  * `__rhino_runmode__` ([Rhino.Commands.RunMode](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api/rhinocommon/rhino.commands.runmode)): Command Run Mode
  * `__is_interactive__` (boolean): Whether command is executed interactively (when `RunMode == RunMode.Interactive`)

## Add Components

To add components, click on the **+** icon on the _Project Tray_ toolbar and
select **Add Components/** item:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-add-button.png)

You can also right-click on the **Components/** to add new components:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-add-rclick.png)

To remove a component, select the source Grasshopper definition in _Project
Tray_ and click the trash button on the toolbar. Note that you can only remove
complete definitions from **Components/** and not the individual components:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-remove.png)

## Components Types: Script

When adding components to a project, an open dialog appears asking for
Grasshopper definitions (`.gh` or `.ghx`). Depending on the contents of the
definition, one of these two types of components are created in the project:

**Script:** If Grasshopper definition _does not contain_ any contextual inputs
or outputs, a component is created for each _Script_ that exist in the
definition. The new component matches nickname, inputs, and outputs of the
_Script_ and runs the same code.

**Example:**

In this example, the definition contains 3 _Script_ components, nicknamed
_First_ , _Second_ , and _Third_. Each script components becomes a component
in published Grasshopper plugin matching the nickname, inputs, and outputs.
See [Project
Components](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-
create/#components) on how to edit components, add icons, and set their
exposure.

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-added-scripts.png)

This is how the components look like when published (default icon). Note that
although they are generated from scripts of different languages, the published
components are language agnostic and the three components look the same:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-published-script.png)

### Required Inputs

Input parameters of published components follow the _Required_ , _Access_ ,
and _Type Hint_ settings of their corresponding input on the original script
component:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
commands-requiredinputs.png)

### Output Previews

Outputs parameters of published components follow the _Preview_ settings of
their corresponding output on the original script component:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-outputpreview.png)

## Components Types: Contextual

**Contextual:** If Grasshopper definition _does contain_ contextual inputs or
outputs, a single component is created for the complete definition. The new
component matches the contextual inputs and outputs of the definition and runs
the full definition on each iteration.

**Example:**

In this example, the definition contains contextual inputs and outputs. The
complete definition becomes a component in published Grasshopper plugin, and
its name matches the definition name by default. Component inputs and outputs
will match contextual inputs and outputs of the definition. Note that any
other _Script_ component in this definition is not converted. See [Project
Components](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-
create/#components) on how to edit components, add icons, and set their
exposure.

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-added-ctx.png)

This is how the component looks like when published (default icon):

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-published-ctx.png)

### Inputs and Outputs

Contextual components embed and run full Grasshopper definitions as a single
component. Inputs and outputs of the component are based on the Contextual
inputs and outputs placed on the source Grasshopper definition. Take this file
as an example:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
commands-gh1.png)

This Grasshopper definition is converted to a component like below. Note that
a specific _GH Parameter_ corresponding with the type of _Get Integer_
contextual component is used as inputs to the component:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-ctx-simple.png)

_Prompt_ value is used as the name of the input parameter:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-ctx-simple-prompt.png)

There are a few contextual components that can filter their input data. _Get
Geometry_ is an example of such contextual component. The more specific the
filter, the more specific the final parameter will be. If filter is specific
to one type, a parameter of that specific type is created on published
component:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-ctx-specific-brep.png)

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-ctx-specific-brep-param.png)

If filter not specific, a flexible geometry parameter is created on published
component:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-ctx-specific-geom.png)

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-ctx-specific-geom-param.png)

Contextual output components are converted to:

  * Generic Goo parameter for _Context Bake_

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-ctx-outgoo.png)

  * Text parameter for _Context Print_

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-ctx-outtext.png)

### Grasshopper Previews

Grasshopper calls the components and parameters on the canvas to draw previews
and follows the drawing settings and mode that is stored in the document. You
can change the mode and settings for each document from the Grasshopper UI.
Component previews are also configurable, and there is a _Custom Preview_
component available as well. This means that you can customize how your
Grasshopper definition previews the geometry it is working with.

Normally a published component that embeds a script (e.g. Python) draws
previews on its outputs as well as any drawings performed by [Preview
Overrides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/scripting-gh-
python/#preview-overrides) of its script.

In case of published component with embedded Grasshopper definitions, the
component itself does not draw any previews and asks the embedded definition
to draw its own previews (Rhino >= 8.13). This means that whatever custom
preview you have specified in the embedded definition, the same preview is
drawn on the canvas.

**Note:** To preserve consistency with other Grasshopper components,
Contextual Components will not draw previews of embedded definition if the
Preview option is off on the component or it is disabled. Preview mode is also
synchronized to the embedded definition, meaning that if you set preview mode
to _Wireframe Preview_ in Grasshopper UI, the embedded definition will also
draws in wireframe mode.

This is an example of a Grasshopper definition that creates a sphere at given
point. It draws its own preview of the sphere using _Custom Preview_
component:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-ghpreview_def.png)

When publishing this Grasshopper definition as a Contextual Component, the
same preview is drawn with the input provided to the component:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-ghpreview_run.gif)

## Project Info

To edit project information, either use the **Publish Project** dialog, or run
the **Edit Project Info** command from editor command prompt. Both dialogs
show identical project information fields:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
edit-fields.png)

### Project Id

Project UUID is assigned when the project is created and remains read-only
afterwards. This id, uniquely identifies your plugin among all other past and
future Rhino and Grasshopper plugins.

This id is embedded in the final plugin assemblies as:

    
    
    [assembly: Guid("e73d16e6-a2d4-4917-93e7-aebeac2f38f5")]
    

It is also assigned to the Grasshopper `AssemblyInfo`:

    
    
    public sealed class AssemblyInfo : GH_AssemblyInfo
    {
        public override Guid Id { get; } = new Guid("e73d16e6-a2d4-4917-93e7-aebeac2f38f5");
    }
    

### Project Name and Icon

_Name_ is the official name of your project. This name will be used when
generating plugin assemblies and other associated files (`<name>` is the
project name in this example):

    
    
        âââ <name>.rhp
        âââ <name>.rui
        âââ <name>.Components.gha
        âââ <name>-0.1.16222.8992-rh8-any.yak
        âââ src
         Â Â  âââ <name>
         Â Â  âÂ Â  âââ AssemblyInfo.cs
         Â Â  âÂ Â  âââ ProjectCommand_*.cs
         Â Â  âÂ Â  âââ ProjectInterop.cs
         Â Â  âÂ Â  âââ ProjectPlugin.cs
         Â Â  âÂ Â  âââ <name>.csproj
         Â Â  âââ <name>.Components
         Â Â  âÂ Â  âââ AssemblyInfo.cs
         Â Â  âÂ Â  âââ ProjectComponent_*.cs
         Â Â  âÂ Â  âââ ProjectComponent_Base.cs
         Â Â  âÂ Â  âââ ProjectInterop.cs
         Â Â  âÂ Â  âââ ProjectPlugin_Grasshopper.cs
         Â Â  âÂ Â  âââ <name>.Components.csproj
         Â Â  âââ <name>.sln
    

You can add/remove SVG icons (both light and dark) for the plugin. This icon
is used in plugin manager and toolbars for both Rhino and Grasshopper:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
edit-name-icon.png)

Project name and icon are used for the toolbar:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
commands-installed.png)

Project name is also used as the main category name in Grasshopper UI. Project
icon is shown if Grasshopper is set to show the icons in category tabs (or
first letter of project name if no icon is set):

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-plugin.png)

### Project Version

This is the project version and follows [Semantic
Versioning](https://semver.org) style. When creating a new project it is set
to v0.1 by default.

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
edit-version.png)

Note that the final version used in building assemblies is `0.1.28927+8991`.
Script editor automatically generates patch and build numbers to completion
the version and make it specific:

  * _Patch_ is the number of seconds since midnight divided by 2.
  * _Build_ number is number of days since start of century (01/01/2000)

You can assign your own custom patch number by entering a value in the _Patch_
field.

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
edit-version-patch.png)

You can also mark the version as _PreRelease_ by checking the box. The patch
suffix `-beta` will be added to the full version. Note that due to lack of
support for custom patch extensions in `AssemblyVersion` attributes, `-beta`
extension is excluded. However the generated _Yak_ package will include the
tag and is marked as pre-release.

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
edit-version-beta.png)
![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
edit-version-patch-beta.png)

Here is an example of how the full version number is included in the plugins:

    
    
    [assembly: AssemblyVersion("0.1.234.8991")]
    [assembly: AssemblyFileVersion("0.1.234.8991")]
    [assembly: AssemblyInformationalVersion("0.1.234.8991")]
    

### Project Authors

Assigning an _Author_ is required for a build. Project Edit or Publish dialogs
show a dropdown, listing all the available authors. Selected author
information will be saved within the project file.

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
edit-author-dropdown.png)

Choose _Edit_ button on the right side of author dropdown to edit the list of
available authors:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
edit-author.png)

Author information is also included in the published plugins using the
[PlugInDescription](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api/rhinocommon/rhino.plugins.plugindescriptionattribute)
attribute in RhinoCommon. Note that the full name of author is not listed and
is usually included as part of _Copyright_ message:

    
    
    [assembly: PlugInDescription(DescriptionType.Email, "ehsan@mcneel.com")]
    [assembly: PlugInDescription(DescriptionType.Phone, "+1 (206)-888 8888")]
    [assembly: PlugInDescription(DescriptionType.Organization, "McNeel")]
    [assembly: PlugInDescription(DescriptionType.Address, "Seattle, WA")]
    [assembly: PlugInDescription(DescriptionType.Country, "USA")]
    [assembly: PlugInDescription(DescriptionType.WebSite, "https://www.rhino3d.com/")]
    

### Project Copyright, License, and URL

Edit the copyright field and add your custom copyright message, or click on
the **Copyright** button to add a default message based on the selected
Author:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
edit-copyright.png)

The copyright message is embedded in the final plugin assemblies as:

    
    
    [assembly: AssemblyCopyright("Copyright Â© 2024 Ehsan Iran-Nejad")]
    

## Commands

### Name and Icon

Once a command is added to the project, you can select and click the _Edit_
icon on the _Project Tray_ toolbar, to edit the command properties. The _Edit
Command_ dialog provides fields to modify the command _Name_ , and to
add/remove SVG icons (both light and dark) for the command. This icon will be
used in the generated toolbar layout file (*.rui):

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
commands-edit-name-icon.png)

Command icons are used for the project toolbar:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
commands-toolbar-buttons.png)

### Type (Style)

Choose the type of Rhino command from the _Type_ dropdown menu. Hidden and
Transparent correspond with the
[Rhino.Commands.Style.Hidden](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api/rhinocommon/rhino.commands.style)
and
[Rhino.Commands.Style.Transparent](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api/rhinocommon/rhino.commands.style)
enum values in RhinoCommon:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
commands-edit-type.png)

### Excluding Commands

Sometimes it is desired to keep a command in the project but exclude that from
published plugins. You can check the _Exclude_ box to exclude the command:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
commands-edit-exclude.png)

Note that _Project Tray_ shows a dimmed icon for excluded commands:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
commands-excluded.png)

## Components

### Name and Icon

Once a component is added to the project, you can select and click the _Edit_
icon on the _Project Tray_ toolbar, to edit the component properties. The
_Edit Component_ dialog provides fields to modify the component _Name_ ,
_NickName_ , _Description_ , and to add/remove SVG icons (both light and dark)
for the component:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-edit-name-icon.png)

### Panel Name (Sub-Category)

_Sub-Category_ is then name of Grasshopper panel that contains the published
component. You can edit and customize the panel name or choose from a list of
previously set panel names in the project:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-subcategory.png)

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-edit-subcategory.png)

### Exposure

Exposure dropdown sets the location of component on the subcategory panel. It
is simplified from
[Grasshopper.Kernel.GH_Exposure](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api/grasshopper/html/T_Grasshopper_Kernel_GH_Exposure.htm)
and includes 4 main areas (`primary`, `secondary`, `tertiary`, and
`quarternary`) of the subcategory panel. See [Component
Versioning](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-
create/#component-versioning) for information on how to update your component
versions.

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-edit-exposure.png)

### Excluding Components

Sometimes it is desired to keep a component in the project but exclude that
from published plugins. You can check the _Exclude_ box to exclude the
component:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-edit-exclude.png)

Note that _Project Tray_ shows a dimmed icon for excluded components:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-excluded.png)

## Component Versioning

Script editor creates a new component in the Grasshopper plugin for each
script component extracted from Grasshopper definition.

__Note __

The **Instance Id** of the source script component, will be used as
**Component Id** of the published component. This means that if you duplicate
the same script component on your Grasshopper canvas, you will end up with
multiple unique components in the published plugin:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-identical.png)

**This is a feature and not a bug.**

### Legacy and New

If you need to make a âbreakingâ change to a published component (e.g.
changing inputs or outputs), it is a good practice to mark the previously
published component as Legacy and create a new component.

Simply duplicate the previous script component on the source Grasshopper
definition, and make your changes to this new instance. Saved the definition
and the _Project Tray_ will update to show then new component. Select and edit
the first component and choose _Legacy_ exposure (Corresponds with
[Grasshopper.Kernel.GH_Exposure.hidden](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api/grasshopper/html/T_Grasshopper_Kernel_GH_Exposure.htm)):

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-edit-legacy.png)

Note that _Project Tray_ shows a dimmed icon with `(Legacy)` postfix for
legacy components:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-legacy.png)

Legacy components are still included in the published plugin but are hidden
and marked as _Old_. You would need to prefix search with `#` to see these
hidden components. This allows your plugin to be backwards compatible and all
previous Grasshopper definitions using the old component still work. The
source Grasshopper definition (`identical.gh` in the screenshot above) also
ends up including the source for each of the published component versions:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
comps-legacy-published.png)

## Shared Libraries

To share code between command and components, create a code library and add
that to your project. These libraries will be embedded in the published
plugins and deployed on the target machine. Here is an example of a project
with a _Python 3_ and _C#_ library added:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
libs-example.png)

### What is a Library

Code libraries are a group of source files organized in a folder. They are
language-specific and follow the library or module creation patterns of that
language. For example, to create a _Python 3_ library, you would need to
organize your python sources like below and include `__init__.py` files.
Otherwise _Python_ will not be able to import these libraries correctly:

    
    
    testmodule/
    âââ __init__.py
    âââ riazi.py
    âââ utils
        âââ __init__.py
        âââ utils.py
    

For C#, a series of `.cs` files organized in a folder will do the job:

    
    
    TestAssembly/
    âââ Math.cs
    âââ Types.cs
    

__Note __

Language libraries are cached when the project is being edited or is
published.

See [Language
Libraries](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/advanced-libraries/)
for more information.

### Add Language Libraries

You can include code libraries in your project under **Libraries/** path.
Choose **Add * Library** from **+** menu in _Project Tray_ toolbar or right-
click on **Libraries/** and add a shared file:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
libs-add-menu.png)

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
libs-add.png)

### Reference Libraries

Once libraries are added, you can reference them in your scripts:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
libs-use-csharp.png)

## Shared Resources

### Add Shared Resources

You can include data files of any type and extension in your project under
**Shared/** path. Choose **Add Shared/** from **+** menu in _Project Tray_
toolbar or right-click on **Shared/** and add a shared file:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
shared-add-menu.png)

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
shared-add.png)

These files will be included in the final _Yak_ package under `shared/` path
and are deployed on target machine. Here is an example of including
`data.json` in the project. The file is included in the _Yak_ package as
`shared/data.json` and deployed when _Yak_ package is installed:

    
    
    myproject-0.1.234.8992-rh8-any.yak
    âââ MyProject.rhp
    âââ MyProject.rui
    âââ MyProject.Components.gha
    âââ manifest.yml
    âââ shared/
        âââ data.json
    

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
shared-deployed.png)

### Find Shared Resource

To query and get access to the deployed data files, use
[Rhino.PlugIns.PlugIn.PathFromId](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api/rhinocommon/rhino.plugins.plugin/pathfromname)
to get the installed path of you plugin. Use this path to build a path to the
deployed data files. Note that data files and deployed under `shared/` path
alongside the plugin assembly file:

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-
shared-query.png)

You can also use
[Rhino.PlugIns.PlugIn.PathFromName](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api/rhinocommon/rhino.plugins.plugin/pathfromname)
and pass your plugin name however the plugin id is better since it should
never change and is more unique than the name.

## Projects in Explorer

The file explorer on the left side of Script Editor shows project source
files. You can open a project by double-clicking the entry in the explorer
(Rhino >=8.12):

![](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/scripting/projects-create/project-in-
explorer.png)

Edit this page

[ Edit on
GitHub](https://github.com/mcneel/developer.rhino3d.com/edit/master/content/en/guides/scripting/projects-
create/index.md) [
History](https://github.com/mcneel/developer.rhino3d.com/commits/master/content/en/guides/scripting/projects-
create/index.md) [ Admin](https://developer.rhino3d.com/admin)

[Find a Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Shop online](https://www.rhino3d.com/store) or find a
[Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Find a Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Privacy Policy](https://www.rhino3d.com/privacy) â¢
[About](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/about) â¢ [Contact
Us](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/contact) â¢ [
Language](https://www.rhino3d.com/language "Change to a different region or
language")

[Copyright Â© 1993-2025 Robert McNeel & Associates. All Rights
Reserved.](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/about)

[](https://www.facebook.com/McNeelRhinoceros/)
[](https://twitter.com/bobmcneel) [](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/75313/)
[](https://www.youtube.com/user/RhinoGuide/videos) [](https://vimeo.com/rhino)
[![Blogger
icon](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/blogger.svg)](http://blog.rhino3d.com/)
[![Food4Rhino](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/f4r_icon_01.svg)](https://www.food4rhino.com)

