---
url: https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/general/contributing/#this-website
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T15:53:18.511845
title: Untitled
---

[RhinoDeveloper®](/)

[design, model, present, analyze, realize...](/)

[![Rhino Logo](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/rhinodevlogo.png)](/)

__

[Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides)
[Samples](https://developer.rhino3d.com/samples)
[API](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api)
[Videos](https://developer.rhino3d.com/videos)
[Community](https://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rhino-developer) [my account
](https://www.rhino3d.com/my-account/ "Manage your account, licenses, and
teams")

[Contributing](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/general/contributing/)

  * GitHub
  * Discourse
  * Report Bugs
  * This website
  * Contacts

[Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/en/guides/) / [General
Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/en/guides/general/) /

Contributing

by [Dan Rigdon-Bel](https://discourse.mcneel.com/u/dan/) (Last updated:
Friday, September 3, 2021)

## GitHub

Many [McNeel projects](http://github.com/mcneel) are open-source and on
[GitHub](http://github.com/).
[RhinoCommon](https://github.com/mcneel/rhinocommon) \- our cross-platform
.NET SDK - is a great example. Even [this very
website](https://github.com/mcneel/developer-rhino3d-com) you are reading now.
Browse source, fork a repo, correct a typo: we welcome participation and pull-
requests.

## Discourse

[discourse.mcneel.com](http://discourse.mcneel.com) is the McNeel forum. This
is the fastest place to get help. Specific categories to post in are:

  * [Rhino Developer](http://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rhino-developer): Customizing Rhino through VB, C#, C++, RhinoScript, and Python.
  * [Scripting](http://discourse.mcneel.com/c/scripting): Topics related to RhinoScript and Python scripting.
  * [openNURBS](http://discourse.mcneel.com/c/opennurbs): Topics related to the openNURBS toolkit.
  * [Grasshopper developer](http://discourse.mcneel.com/c/grasshopper-developer): VB, C#, and Python in Grasshopper components.

## Report Bugs

Whenever you encounter something that doesn’t work as it should, we’d love it
if you could file a bug report. Please report issues or bugs with our APIs or
SDKs on the appropriate Discourse category, above.

## This website

This website is [open source on GitHub](https://github.com/mcneel/developer-
rhino3d-com). If you find errors or think a page could be improved, just click
the “Edit page on GitHub” link at the bottom of any page. If you are a McNeel
employee, you should already have permissions to commit to this repository. If
you are a Rhino Plugin Developer, you can [request permissions to
commit](mailto:steve@mcneel.com). Anyone can clone the repository and submit a
pull-request.

This site uses [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) as the
base-format for all content.

To get started authoring content for this site, please read the following
guides:

  * [Contributing (to this website)](https://github.com/mcneel/developer-rhino3d-com/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
  * [Getting Started with Developer Docs](https://github.com/mcneel/developer-rhino3d-com/blob/main/README.md)
  * [How This Site Works](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/general/how-this-site-works/)
  * [Developer Docs Style Guide](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/general/developer-docs-style-guide/)

You may also want to take a look at the
[Admin](https://developer.rhino3d.com/admin/) page.

## Contacts

Who to talk to for what:

  * [Steve Baer](https://developer.rhino3d.com/authors/steve/) (RhinoCommon) - @stevebaer on [Discourse](http://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rhino-developer)
  * [Alain Cormier](https://developer.rhino3d.com/authors/alain/) (Rhino.Python) - @alain on [Discourse](http://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rhino-developer)
  * [Dale Fugier](https://developer.rhino3d.com/authors/dale/) (C/C++ SDK, Zoo, RAP) - @dale on [Discourse](http://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rhino-developer)
  * [Dale Lear](https://developer.rhino3d.com/authors/dalelear/) (openNURBS) - @dalelear on [Discourse](http://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rhino-developer)
  * [David Rutten](https://developer.rhino3d.com/authors/david/) (Grasshopper) - [David Rutten](http://www.grasshopper3d.com/profile/DavidRutten) on the [Grasshopper 3D forum](http://www.grasshopper3d.com)
  * [Giulio Piacentino](https://developer.rhino3d.com/authors/giulio/) (GhPython) - @piac on [Discourse](http://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rhino-developer)
  * [Andy le Bihan](https://developer.rhino3d.com/authors/andy/) (RDK) - @andy on [Discourse](http://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rhino-developer)
  * Curtis Wensley (Eto) - @curtisw on [Discourse](http://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rhino-developer)
  * [Dan Rigdon-Bel](https://developer.rhino3d.com/authors/dan/) \- @dan on [Discourse](http://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rhino-developer)

Edit this page

[ Edit on
GitHub](https://github.com/mcneel/developer.rhino3d.com/edit/master/content/en/guides/general/contributing/index.md)
[
History](https://github.com/mcneel/developer.rhino3d.com/commits/master/content/en/guides/general/contributing/index.md)
[ Admin](https://developer.rhino3d.com/admin)

[Find a Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Shop online](https://www.rhino3d.com/store) or find a
[Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Find a Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Privacy Policy](https://www.rhino3d.com/privacy) •
[About](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/about) • [Contact
Us](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/contact) • [
Language](https://www.rhino3d.com/language "Change to a different region or
language")

[Copyright © 1993-2025 Robert McNeel & Associates. All Rights
Reserved.](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/about)

[](https://www.facebook.com/McNeelRhinoceros/)
[](https://twitter.com/bobmcneel) [](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/75313/)
[](https://www.youtube.com/user/RhinoGuide/videos) [](https://vimeo.com/rhino)
[![Blogger
icon](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/blogger.svg)](http://blog.rhino3d.com/)
[![Food4Rhino](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/f4r_icon_01.svg)](https://www.food4rhino.com)

