---
url: https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/general/frequently-asked-questions/
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T15:34:04.200613
title: Untitled
---

[RhinoDeveloper®](/)

[design, model, present, analyze, realize...](/)

[![Rhino Logo](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/rhinodevlogo.png)](/)

__

[Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides)
[Samples](https://developer.rhino3d.com/samples)
[API](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api)
[Videos](https://developer.rhino3d.com/videos)
[Community](https://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rhino-developer) [my account
](https://www.rhino3d.com/my-account/ "Manage your account, licenses, and
teams")

[Frequently Asked
Questions](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/general/frequently-asked-
questions/)

[Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/en/guides/) / [General
Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/en/guides/general/) /

Frequently Asked Questions

by [Dan Rigdon-Bel](https://discourse.mcneel.com/u/dan/) (Last updated:
Thursday, May 15, 2025)

**Which SDK is right for me?**

It all depends on what you want to do. If you are looking to automate
repetitive tasks in Rhino, writing a
[Python](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/#rhinopython) script is the way
to go. If you are looking to write a full-fledged plugin or Grasshopper
component, we strongly suggest the [RhinoCommon
SDK](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/rhinocommon/what-is-rhinocommon/).
If you are very proficient with C/C++, you should consider the native C/C++
SDK (only supported on Rhino for Windows).

**Can I write plugins that run on both Windows and Mac?**

Yes…even using [the same
code](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/rhinocommon/what-is-rhinocommon/).

**What are Macros?**

Macros are string of Rhino commands and command options that allow you to
create an automated sequence of operations. This macro (sequence) can then be
repeated at the push of a toolbar button or by typing an alias.

**What are Scripts?**

For more complex tasks, macros are insufficient. They lack the ability to make
complex calculations, store and retrieve data, analyze that data and make
conditional decisions, or reach deep into the inner workings of Rhino. For
this, one needs a real programming tool. The simplest and most accessible of
these is Python, which also includes its version of RhinoScript syntax. When
we talk about scripts we are usually referring to functions written with
RhinoScript or Python.

**What are Plugins?**

Plugins are even more sophisticated tools: these are compiled computer
programs that can be integrated into Rhino. These can range from simple
script-like functions to complex, full blown programs for doing rendering,
animation, machining, etc.

**What is your release schedule?**

Weekly! (if all goes well) but - for most users - the answer is monthly. See
our [Release
Schedule](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/general/developing-software-in-
public/#publish) for more information.

Edit this page

[ Edit on
GitHub](https://github.com/mcneel/developer.rhino3d.com/edit/master/content/en/guides/general/frequently-
asked-questions/index.md) [
History](https://github.com/mcneel/developer.rhino3d.com/commits/master/content/en/guides/general/frequently-
asked-questions/index.md) [ Admin](https://developer.rhino3d.com/admin)

[Find a Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Shop online](https://www.rhino3d.com/store) or find a
[Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Find a Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Privacy Policy](https://www.rhino3d.com/privacy) •
[About](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/about) • [Contact
Us](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/contact) • [
Language](https://www.rhino3d.com/language "Change to a different region or
language")

[Copyright © 1993-2025 Robert McNeel & Associates. All Rights
Reserved.](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/about)

[](https://www.facebook.com/McNeelRhinoceros/)
[](https://twitter.com/bobmcneel) [](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/75313/)
[](https://www.youtube.com/user/RhinoGuide/videos) [](https://vimeo.com/rhino)
[![Blogger
icon](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/blogger.svg)](http://blog.rhino3d.com/)
[![Food4Rhino](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/f4r_icon_01.svg)](https://www.food4rhino.com)

