---
url: https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/general/how-this-site-works/#related-topics
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T16:00:32.716470
title: Untitled
---

[RhinoDeveloper®](/)

[design, model, present, analyze, realize...](/)

[![Rhino Logo](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/rhinodevlogo.png)](/)

__

[Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides)
[Samples](https://developer.rhino3d.com/samples)
[API](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api)
[Videos](https://developer.rhino3d.com/videos)
[Community](https://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rhino-developer) [my account
](https://www.rhino3d.com/my-account/ "Manage your account, licenses, and
teams")

[How This Site Works](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/general/how-this-
site-works/)

  * Workflow
  * Frontmatter
  * Markdown
  * Layout and Theme
  * Types of content
    * Index Pages
    * Guides
    * Samples
    * APIs
  * Other Frontmatter
    * Admin
    * Page Options
    * Included In
    * _Build
  * Authors
  * Related topics

[Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/en/guides/) / [General
Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/en/guides/general/) /

How This Site Works

by [Dan Rigdon-Bel](https://discourse.mcneel.com/u/dan/) (Last updated:
Monday, October 7, 2024)

Every time a commit is pushed to [this git
repository](https://github.com/mcneel/developer.rhino3d.com)’s `main` branch,
a static site-generator called [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) churns through all
the markdown content to generate html for the site.

## Workflow

The best way to understand how this site works is to make a change to it.
Follow these steps:

  1. If you have not already, read the [README’s Getting Started](https://github.com/mcneel/developer.rhino3d.com/blob/main/README.md#getting-started) section. This will get you setup building the entire site locally on your computer so you can preview changes before making them live (by committing and pushing).
  2. With the site up and running on your localhost, make a change to one of the pages (find a typo…there are many). A good editor for Markdown is the [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/). Once you save your changes to the .md file, Hugo will automatically refresh the page with your changes.
  3. If you are satisfied with your change, use git to commit your change to the GitHub repository (or submit a pull-request for review).
  4. Wait a minute or two (If you issued a pull-request, your change won’t be live until a git administrator accepts it).
  5. On the live [developer.rhino3d.com](http://developer.rhino3d.com), you should see your change.

## Frontmatter

The top of each file in the _/contents/en_ folder - “content” for short -
contains metadata called “frontmatter.” This frontmatter is in the [toml
format](https://toml.io/en/) between the first `+++` and the second `+++`. For
example, this guide’s source has:

    
    
    +++
    aliases = ["/5/guides/general/how-this-site-works/", "/6/guides/general/how-this-site-works/", "/7/guides/general/how-this-site-works/", "/wip/guides/general/how-this-site-works/"]
    authors = [ "dan" ]
    categories = [ "This Site" ]
    description = "A guide to how this very developer document site works."
    keywords = [ "authoring", "writing", "editing", "overview" ]
    languages = [ "Markdown", "Goldmark", "TOML" ]
    sdk = [ "General" ]
    title = "How This Site Works"
    type = "guides"
    weight = 7
    
    [admin]
    TODO = ""
    origin = ""
    picky_sisters = ""
    state = ""
    
    [included_in]
    platforms = [ "Windows", "Mac" ]
    since = 0
    
    [page_options]
    byline = true
    toc = true
    toc_type = "single"
    
    +++
    

This toml metadata determines how this piece of content is organized and
presented in lists. Hugo has some default frontmatter entries (like `title =
"Something something"`), but the key/value pairs can be customized to our
liking. This frontmatter is used - at the time the site is built - to
determine how the page renders.

## Markdown

Nearly all content on this site uses
[Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/basics) as the base
format. We are using the [Goldmark](https://github.com/yuin/goldmark) markdown
parser, which is the default parser with Hugo. A complete guide to Markdown is
beyond the scope of this guide. For markdown syntax, refer to the [Hugo
Markdown Guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/tools/hugo) or use other files
on this site as examples. Everything after the frontmatter (after the second
`+++`) is the markdown content for the page.

Use the [Style Guide](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/general/developer-
docs-style-guide/) guide as a reference when writing content for this site.

## Layout and Theme

Each page on this site is generated by Hugo’s templating engine using a
layout. These layouts are found in the _/layouts/_ folder and the theme’s
_/layouts/_ folder.

Hugo uses a system called “themes” to apply layouts and styles that can be
shared between sites. This site - like rhino3d.com - uses the rhino3d.com-
theme found in the _/themes/_ folder.

__Shared Theme __

Unless you know what you are doing, you should not need to edit the
rhino3d.com-theme. This theme is shared between multiple websites and changes
to the theme can impact other sites. If you are in need of a layout or
shortcode that is not provided, feel free to add it to the site-specific
folders _outside_ the theme folder. If you would like to modify a file in the
theme, please ask for help first.

Hugo is very opinionated about looking up files; it has a [complex lookup
order system](https://gohugo.io/templates/lookup-order/). In general, Hugo has
a “specific-to-general” preference for looking up assets like layouts (and
data). For example, the default layout applied to a page is first determined
by whether or not there is a matching layout with the same name as the
content’s parent folder. For example, this guide is in a subfolder of a folder
called _content/en/guides_. Hugo will first look to see if the site’s
_/layouts_ folder contains a matching _guides.html_ file and - if not - it
will then search the _themes/rhino3d.com-theme/layouts/_ folder for a file
called _guides.html_. If it doesn’t find those, it will apply a more general
(or default) layout.

You can override which layout should be used by typing the layout’s title in
the `type = ` toml field at the top of the markdown file.

## Types of content

There are 4 types of content on this site:

  1. [Index Pages](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/general/how-this-site-works/#index-pages)
  2. [Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/general/how-this-site-works/#guides)
  3. [Samples](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/general/how-this-site-works/#samples)
  4. [APIs](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/general/how-this-site-works/#apis)

All types of content - with the exception of APIs - begin with toml, which the
site uses to categories and sort the content into appropriate areas.

### Index Pages

Index pages are interspersed throughout the site. The [Welcome
page](https://developer.rhino3d.com/), the [Guides
page](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/), and the [Samples
page](https://developer.rhino3d.com/samples/), are all examples of Index
pages. The source for such pages start with an underscore `_` and use the
_list.html_ template (rather than the _single.html_).

Here is an example of the toml frontmatter for [a index
page](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/):

    
    
    +++
    aliases = ["/5/guides/", "/6/guides/", "/7/guides/", "/wip/guides/"]
    description = "All the guides available for developing for Rhino or Grasshopper."
    title = "Guides"
    type = "guides"
    weight = 2
    
    [...]
    
    +++
    

For illustrative purposes, the toml fields for these do the following:

  * _aliases_ : These are used to create redirects. Hugo can stub out a direct from the alias to this location.
  * _description_ : A brief description of the content, used for SEO, mouseovers, tooltips and social media unfurls.
  * _title_ : This is the title of the page. This is the html page title.
  * _type_ : A possible override to the page’s template.
  * _weight_ : The relative sort-order of this page in any collection of pages.

### Guides

Guides are contained in the _/content/en/guides/_ directory. This very
document you are reading is a Guide.

To create a new guide, simply create a new markdown file and place it in the
_/content/en/guides/_ folder or subfolder. The file be in a folder with a
descriptive name (using dashes `-`s as the word separator) and contain an
_index.md_ file with some toml frontmatter.

Here is an example of the YAML for this guide:

    
    
    +++
    aliases = ["/5/guides/general/how-this-site-works/", "/6/guides/general/how-this-site-works/", "/7/guides/general/how-this-site-works/", "/wip/guides/general/how-this-site-works/"]
    authors = [ "dan" ]
    categories = [ "This Site" ]
    description = "A guide to how this very developer document site works."
    keywords = [ "authoring", "writing", "editing", "overview" ]
    languages = [ "Markdown", "Goldmark", "TOML" ]
    sdk = [ "General" ]
    title = "How This Site Works"
    type = "guides"
    weight = 7
    
    [...]
    
    +++
    

The toml fields for Guides determine:

  * _aliases_ : These are used to create redirects. Hugo can stub out a direct from the alias to this location.
  * _authors_ : The original - or responsible - author(s). These values are in the _authors.yml_ file in _themes/rhino3d.com-theme/data_ folder..
  * _categories_ : The category of the guide (General, Overview, Advanced).
  * _description_ : A brief description of the content, used for SEO, mouseovers, tooltips and social media unfurls.
  * _keywords_ : Keywords related to this guide (un-used, as of yet).
  * _languages_ : The programming languages this guide references.
  * _sdk_ : The Rhino SDK(s) that this guide pertains to.
  * _title_ : This is the title of the guide. This is the html page title.
  * _type_ : The layout html file used by Liquid (found in _/layouts/_) on the guide.
  * _weight_ : The relative sort-order of this page in any collection of pages.

etc.

### Samples

Samples are contained in the `/content/en/samples/` folder.

Here is an example of the YAML for [this
sample](https://developer.rhino3d.com/samples/cpp/add-a-cone-surface/):

    
    
    +++
    aliases = ["/5/samples/cpp/add-a-cone-surface/", "/6/samples/cpp/add-a-cone-surface/", "/7/samples/cpp/add-a-cone-surface/", "/wip/samples/cpp/add-a-cone-surface/"]
    authors = [ "dale" ]
    categories = [ "Adding Objects", "Surfaces" ]
    description = "Demonstrates how to create a cone using ON_BrepCone."
    keywords = [ "rhino" ]
    languages = [ "C/C++" ]
    sdk = [ "C/C++" ]
    title = "Add a Cone Surface"
    type = "samples/cpp"
    weight = 1
    
    [...]
    
    +++
    

The toml fields here should look familiar to those found in the guides above.

### APIs

The [API documentation](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api/) is automatically
generated from source-code and cannot be edited “by hand.”

## Other Frontmatter

Many of the pages, guides, and samples have additional frontmatter such as
`TODO` and `origin` yaml field. These fields are used by the site to toggle
different page features, such as the presence of a table-of-contents (`toc =
`) or whether or not a page is crawled by search-engines `block_webcrawlers`.
In addition to those frontmatter entries shown above here are some of the more
common additional frontmatter fields:

### Admin

The `[admin]` namespace governs fields related to the editorial process used -
internally - to draft, edit, and localize the page.

  * `TODO`: _(string)_ A note on what specifically needs to be done next. It shows up in the [Site Admin page](https://developer.rhino3d.com/admin/)
  * `origin`: _(string)_ Used if the page is a conversion from a previous page. The origin field contains the URL address of the original source material. It is often used when setting up redirects from older content to the newer content.
  * `picky_sisters`: _(string)_ These are comments made by the Picky Sisters as editorial feedback to the author.
  * `state`: _(string)_ State identifies the part of the process that a document is in. It shows up in the [Site Admin page](https://developer.rhino3d.com/admin/) page. The states we use are: 
    * `In Progress`: This page is a work-in-progress, not yet ready for review, let alone translation.
    * `To Edit`: This page is ready for “Picky Sisters” review and editing, but not yet ready for translation.
    * `Complete`: This page is “substantially” complete and ready to be translated. It will show up in the [translators’ localization status pages](https://developer.rhino3d.com/admin/localization-status/).

### Page Options

The [page_options] namespace governs fields with optional page features such
as:

  * `toc`: _(boolean)_ Determines whether or not to display the Table of Contents widget.
  * `byline`: _(boolean)_ Set to `true` to display a byline and the date this page was last edited.
  * `block_webcrawlers`: _(boolean)_ This controls whether or not the page is crawled by search-engine robots: it adds the appropriate html to the head to prevent search engine robots from crawling the page. This is frequently used for draft content. If not set, it defaults to `false`, allowing the page to be indexed.

### Included In

The `[included_in]` namespace governs fields related to support on different
platforms (“Windows”, “Mac”) and when the feature or subject was introduced:

    
    
    [included_in]
    platforms = [ "Windows", "Mac" ]
    since = 2
    until = 6
    

  * `platforms`: _(list of strings)_ which operating systems this topic pertains to. If only one is included, a badge is rendered on the guide or sample that calls out this is a “Windows-only” feautre.
  * `since`: _(integer)_ The major version of Rhino this feature or topic was introduced in. If the current version of Rhino matches this number, a _New_ badge might be rendered on the page.
  * `until`: _(integer)_ The major version of Rhino this feature or topic was deprecated (removed) in. If the current version of Rhino is greater than this number, we can render a deprecated warning or badge to call-out that this content is obsolete or removed.

### _Build

This is a field to specify whether a page is listed as a page on the website -
especially when iterating through pages in layouts/templates. The most common
use of the `list` field is to set it to `"never"` like this:

    
    
    [_build]
    list="never"
    

## Authors

To add a new author to the site, you must do three things:

  1. Add an entry to the _themes/rhino3d.com-theme/data/authors.yml_ file with the appropriate fields filled in.
  2. Duplicate one of the index.md files in the _content/en/authors_ folder and use the `name:` value that you added to the _themes/rhino3d.com-theme/data/authors.yml_ file in step 1 above as the folder name.
  3. Use the author’s `name:` value as a string in the `authors = ['your_new_author_name']` toml entries in guides or samples.

That’s it.

## Related topics

  * [Rhino Developer Docs Style Guide](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/general/developer-docs-style-guide/)

Edit this page

[ Edit on
GitHub](https://github.com/mcneel/developer.rhino3d.com/edit/master/content/en/guides/general/how-
this-site-works/index.md) [
History](https://github.com/mcneel/developer.rhino3d.com/commits/master/content/en/guides/general/how-
this-site-works/index.md) [ Admin](https://developer.rhino3d.com/admin)

[Find a Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Shop online](https://www.rhino3d.com/store) or find a
[Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Find a Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Privacy Policy](https://www.rhino3d.com/privacy) •
[About](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/about) • [Contact
Us](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/contact) • [
Language](https://www.rhino3d.com/language "Change to a different region or
language")

[Copyright © 1993-2025 Robert McNeel & Associates. All Rights
Reserved.](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/about)

[](https://www.facebook.com/McNeelRhinoceros/)
[](https://twitter.com/bobmcneel) [](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/75313/)
[](https://www.youtube.com/user/RhinoGuide/videos) [](https://vimeo.com/rhino)
[![Blogger
icon](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/blogger.svg)](http://blog.rhino3d.com/)
[![Food4Rhino](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/f4r_icon_01.svg)](https://www.food4rhino.com)

