---
url: https://wiki.freecad.org/About_FreeCAD
title: About FreeCAD
scraped_at: 2025-09-08 16:43:22
---

Toggle the table of contents

## Contents

move to sidebar hide

  * Beginning
  * 1 About the FreeCAD project
  * 2 About the FPA

# About FreeCAD

  * [Page](/About_FreeCAD "View the content page \[ctrl-option-c\]")
  * [Discussion](/Talk:About_FreeCAD "Discussion about the content page \[ctrl-option-t\]")

English

  * [Read](/About_FreeCAD)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=About_FreeCAD&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=About_FreeCAD&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [Edit on GitHub](https://github.com/Reqrefusion/FreeCAD-Documentation-Project/blob/main/wiki/About_FreeCAD.wikitext "Edit this page on GitHub")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=About_FreeCAD&action=history "Past revisions of this page \[ctrl-option-h\]")

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * [Read](/About_FreeCAD)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=About_FreeCAD&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=About_FreeCAD&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=About_FreeCAD&action=history)

General

  * [What links here](/Special:WhatLinksHere/About_FreeCAD "A list of all wiki pages that link here \[ctrl-option-j\]")
  * [Related changes](/Special:RecentChangesLinked/About_FreeCAD "Recent changes in pages linked from this page \[ctrl-option-k\]")
  * [Special pages](/Special:SpecialPages "A list of all special pages \[ctrl-option-q\]")
  * [Permanent link](https://wiki.freecad.org/index.php?title=About_FreeCAD&oldid=1604993 "Permanent link to this revision of this page")
  * [Page information](/index.php?title=About_FreeCAD&action=info "More information about this page")
  * Expand all

Print/export

  * [Download as PDF](/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=About_FreeCAD&action=show-download-screen)
  * [Printable version](javascript:print\(\); "Printable version of this page \[ctrl-option-p\]")

From FreeCAD Documentation

[Translate this page](/Special:Translate?group=page-
About+FreeCAD&action=page&filter=&language=en)This is the approved revision of
this page, as well as being the most recent.

Other languages:

  * [](/index.php?title=Special:Translate&group=page-About+FreeCAD&language=&task=view "Start translation for this language")
  * [Bahasa Indonesia](/About_FreeCAD/id "About FreeCAD/id \(7% translated\)")
  * [Deutsch](/About_FreeCAD/de "fillet \(100% translated\)")
  * English
  * [Türkçe](/About_FreeCAD/tr "FreeCAD Hakkında \(27% translated\)")
  * [español](/About_FreeCAD/es "Acerca de FreeCAD \(47% translated\)")
  * [français](/About_FreeCAD/fr "À propos de FreeCAD \(100% translated\)")
  * [hrvatski](/About_FreeCAD/hr "O FreeCAD-u \(47% translated\)")
  * [italiano](/About_FreeCAD/it "Informazioni su FreeCAD \(100% translated\)")
  * [polski](/About_FreeCAD/pl "Informacje na temat FreeCAD. \(100% translated\)")
  * [português](/About_FreeCAD/pt "Acerca do FreeCAD \(33% translated\)")
  * [português do Brasil](/About_FreeCAD/pt-br "Sobre o FreeCAD \(60% translated\)")
  * [română](/About_FreeCAD/ro "A propos de FreeCAD \(27% translated\)")
  * [slovenčina](/About_FreeCAD/sk "O FreeCADe \(47% translated\)")
  * [svenska](/About_FreeCAD/sv "About FreeCAD \(13% translated\)")
  * [čeština](/About_FreeCAD/cs "O FreeCADu \(20% translated\)")
  * [български](/About_FreeCAD/bg "За FreeCAD \(20% translated\)")
  * [русский](/About_FreeCAD/ru "О FreeCAD \(60% translated\)")
  * [українська](/About_FreeCAD/uk "About FreeCAD \(7% translated\)")
  * [中文](/About_FreeCAD/zh "关于FreeCAD \(40% translated\)")
  * [中文（中国大陆）](/About_FreeCAD/zh-cn "关于 FreeCAD \(27% translated\)")
  * [中文（臺灣）](/About_FreeCAD/zh-tw "關於 FreeCAD \(7% translated\)")
  * [日本語](/About_FreeCAD/ja "FreeCADについて \(60% translated\)")
  * [한국어](/About_FreeCAD/ko "FreeCAD에 대해 \(60% translated\)")

![](/images/6/6f/Arrow-left.svg) [Online Help
Startpage](/Online_Help_Startpage "Online Help Startpage")

[Feature list](/Feature_list "Feature list") ![](/images/a/af/Arrow-right.svg)

[Index](/Online_Help_Toc "Online Help Toc")
![](/images/7/76/Online_Help_Toc.svg)

[![](/images/thumb/2/2a/Freecad_default.jpg/1024px-
Freecad_default.jpg)](/index.php?title=File:Freecad_default.jpg&filetimestamp=20130925032446&)

**FreeCAD** is a general purpose [open
source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_source) parametric 3D
[**CAD**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAD) modeler licensed under the [LGPL
License](/License "License"). FreeCAD is aimed directly at [mechanical
engineering](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mechanical_engineering) and
[product design](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Product_design) but, being very
generic, also fits in a wider range of uses around engineering, such as
architecture, finite element analysis, 3D printing, and other tasks.

FreeCAD features tools similar to
[CATIA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CATIA),
[SolidWorks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solidworks), [Solid
Edge](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solid_Edge) or
[Revit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autodesk_Revit), and therefore also
falls into the category of [**CAD**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAD),
[**PLM**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Product_Lifecycle_Management),
[**CAx**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAx),
[**CAE**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer-aided_engineering) and
[**BIM**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Building_information_modeling). It is
a [feature based parametric
modeler](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parametric_feature_based_modeler) with
a modular software architecture making it possible to provide additional
functionality without modifying the core system.

As with other CAD modelers it has many 2D components in order to sketch planar
shapes or create production drawings. However, direct 2D drawing (like
[Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/) or [AutoCAD
LT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AutoCAD#AutoCAD_LT)) is not the focus,
neither are animation or mesh editing (like
[Blender](https://www.blender.org/),
[Maya](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maya_\(software\)), [Autodesk 3ds
Max](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autodesk_3ds_Max), or [Cinema
4D](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CINEMA_4D)). Nevertheless, thanks to its
wide adaptability, FreeCAD is useful in a much broader area around its base
feature set.

FreeCAD makes heavy use of open-source libraries that exist in the field of
[scientific computing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scientific_Computation).
Among them are [Open Cascade Technology (OCCT)](https://OpenCascade.org), a
powerful CAD kernel; [Coin3D](https://github.com/coin3d/coin/wiki), a toolkit
for 3D graphics development compatible with [Open
Inventor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_Inventor);
[Qt](https://www.qt.io), the world-famous user interface framework; and
[Python](https://python.org), a modern scripting language. FreeCAD itself can
also be used as a library by other programs.

FreeCAD is also [multi-platform](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-
platform), and currently runs on Linux/Unix, Windows, and macOS systems with
the same look and functionality on all platforms.

For more information about FreeCAD's capabilities, take a look at the [feature
list](/Feature_list "Feature list"), the [latest release
notes](/Feature_list#Release_notes "Feature list"), and the [getting
started](/Getting_started "Getting started") articles, or see more
[screenshots](/Screenshots "Screenshots").

### About the FreeCAD project

The FreeCAD project was started as far back as 2001, as described on the
[history](/History "History") page.

FreeCAD is maintained and developed by a [community of enthusiastic developers
and users](/Contributors "Contributors") and is built through the patient work
of hundreds of contributors, some regular, some occasional. Most work on
FreeCAD as volunteers. The [FreeCAD forum](https://forum.freecad.org) is where
most of the ideas and decisions are discussed, and the [GitHub
repository](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD) is where the code is being
kept, shared, discussed and worked on. Anybody is [welcome to
participate](/Help_FreeCAD "Help FreeCAD").

### About the FPA

The FreeCAD project is also supported by a non-profit organization, the
[FreeCAD project association (FPA)](https://fpa.freecad.org). The FPA is an
independent body created by some FreeCAD veterans in 2021 to collect
[donations](/Donate "Donate") and other resources to support the project and
its community, to help protect that community and allow it to continue
developing in the best conditions, and to represent the project against other
bodies such as companies and institutions.

  

![](/images/6/6f/Arrow-left.svg) [Online Help
Startpage](/Online_Help_Startpage "Online Help Startpage")

[Feature list](/Feature_list "Feature list") ![](/images/a/af/Arrow-right.svg)

[Index](/Online_Help_Toc "Online Help Toc")
![](/images/7/76/Online_Help_Toc.svg)

Expand[![](/images/thumb/9/94/User_hub.png/24px-
User_hub.png)](/index.php?title=File:User_hub.png&filetimestamp=20190221145008&)
[User documentation](/User_hub "User hub")

  * **[Getting started](/Getting_started "Getting started")**
  * **Installation:** [Download](/Download "Download"), [Windows](/Installing_on_Windows "Installing on Windows"), [Linux](/Installing_on_Linux "Installing on Linux"), [Mac](/Installing_on_Mac "Installing on Mac"), [Additional components](/Installing_additional_components "Installing additional components"), [Docker](/Compile_on_Docker "Compile on Docker"), [AppImage](/AppImage "AppImage"), [Ubuntu Snap](/Ubuntu_Snap "Ubuntu Snap")
  * **Basics:** About FreeCAD, [Interface](/Interface "Interface"), [Mouse navigation](/Mouse_navigation "Mouse navigation"), [Selection methods](/Selection_methods "Selection methods"), [Object name](/Object_name "Object name"), [Preferences](/Preferences_Editor "Preferences Editor"), [Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"), [Document structure](/Document_structure "Document structure"), [Properties](/Property "Property"), [Help FreeCAD](/Help_FreeCAD "Help FreeCAD"), [Donate](/Donate "Donate")

* * *

  * **Help:** [Tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials"), [Video tutorials](/Video_tutorials "Video tutorials")
  * **[Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"):** [Std Base](/Std_Base "Std Base"), [Assembly](/Assembly_Workbench "Assembly Workbench"), [BIM](/BIM_Workbench "BIM Workbench"), [CAM](/CAM_Workbench "CAM Workbench"), [Draft](/Draft_Workbench "Draft Workbench"), [FEM](/FEM_Workbench "FEM Workbench"), [Inspection](/Inspection_Workbench "Inspection Workbench"), [Material](/Material_Workbench "Material Workbench"), [Mesh](/Mesh_Workbench "Mesh Workbench"), [OpenSCAD](/OpenSCAD_Workbench "OpenSCAD Workbench"), [Part](/Part_Workbench "Part Workbench"), [PartDesign](/PartDesign_Workbench "PartDesign Workbench"), [Points](/Points_Workbench "Points Workbench"), [Reverse Engineering](/Reverse_Engineering_Workbench "Reverse Engineering Workbench"), [Robot](/Robot_Workbench "Robot Workbench"), [Sketcher](/Sketcher_Workbench "Sketcher Workbench"), [Spreadsheet](/Spreadsheet_Workbench "Spreadsheet Workbench"), [Surface](/Surface_Workbench "Surface Workbench"), [TechDraw](/TechDraw_Workbench "TechDraw Workbench"), [Test Framework](/Testing "Testing")

* * *

  * **[Addons](/Addon "Addon"):** [Addon Manager](/Std_AddonMgr "Std AddonMgr"), [External workbenches](/External_workbenches "External workbenches"), [Scripting and macros](/Scripting_and_macros "Scripting and macros")

* * *

  * **Hubs:** [User hub](/User_hub "User hub"), [Power users hub](/Power_users_hub "Power users hub"), [Developer hub](/Developer_hub "Developer hub")

