---
url: https://wiki.freecad.org/Donate
title: Donate
scraped_at: 2025-09-08 16:45:53
---

Toggle the table of contents

## Contents

move to sidebar hide

  * Beginning
  * 1 More details about the different options
  * 2 Funding a specific developer
  * 3 Jobs
  * 4 Sponsoring
  * 5 The FPA
  * 6 Tax deductions

# Donate

  * [Page](/Donate "View the content page \[ctrl-option-c\]")
  * [Discussion](/Talk:Donate "Discussion about the content page \[ctrl-option-t\]")

English

  * [Read](/Donate)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=Donate&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=Donate&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [Edit on GitHub](https://github.com/Reqrefusion/FreeCAD-Documentation-Project/blob/main/wiki/Donate.wikitext "Edit this page on GitHub")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=Donate&action=history "Past revisions of this page \[ctrl-option-h\]")

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * [Read](/Donate)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=Donate&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=Donate&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=Donate&action=history)

General

  * [What links here](/Special:WhatLinksHere/Donate "A list of all wiki pages that link here \[ctrl-option-j\]")
  * [Related changes](/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Donate "Recent changes in pages linked from this page \[ctrl-option-k\]")
  * [Special pages](/Special:SpecialPages "A list of all special pages \[ctrl-option-q\]")
  * [Permanent link](https://wiki.freecad.org/index.php?title=Donate&oldid=1627063 "Permanent link to this revision of this page")
  * [Page information](/index.php?title=Donate&action=info "More information about this page")
  * Expand all

Print/export

  * [Download as PDF](/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=Donate&action=show-download-screen)
  * [Printable version](javascript:print\(\); "Printable version of this page \[ctrl-option-p\]")

From FreeCAD Documentation

[Translate this page](/Special:Translate?group=page-
Donate&action=page&filter=&language=en)This is the approved revision of this
page, as well as being the most recent.

Other languages:

  * [](/index.php?title=Special:Translate&group=page-Donate&language=&task=view "Start translation for this language")
  * [Deutsch](/Donate/de "Spenden \(31% translated\)")
  * English
  * [español](/Donate/es "Donaciones \(8% translated\)")
  * [français](/Donate/fr "Faire un don \(85% translated\)")
  * [italiano](/Donate/it "Donazioni \(85% translated\)")
  * [polski](/Donate/pl "Dotacje \(85% translated\)")
  * [português do Brasil](/Donate/pt-br "Doações \(8% translated\)")
  * [suomi](/Donate/fi "Lahjoitukset \(27% translated\)")
  * [русский](/Donate/ru "Пожертвования \(85% translated\)")
  * [中文（臺灣）](/Donate/zh-tw "捐獻 \(4% translated\)")
  * [日本語](/Donate/ja "寄付 \(4% translated\)")

Below are the different donation options currently supported by the project.
Remember, it will never be required to pay money to use, study, distribute or
develop FreeCAD. Donations however help FreeCAD and its developers to dedicate
time and resources to make the project grow faster and further.

| [![](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/b/b7/PayPal_Logo_Icon_2014.svg)](/File:PayPal_Logo_Icon_2014.svg) [PayPal](https://www.paypal.com/donate/?hosted_button_id=M3Z8BGW6DB69Q) |  | [![](/images/thumb/a/a2/SepaLogoEN.jpg/128px-SepaLogoEN.jpg)](/index.php?title=File:SepaLogoEN.jpg&filetimestamp=20220705123319&) SEPA bank transfer: IBAN BE04 0019 2896 4531   
---|---|---|---  
[![](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/b/b3/GitHub.svg)](/File:GitHub.svg) [GitHub sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/FreeCAD) |  | [![](/images/7/7d/Opencollective_logo.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Opencollective_logo.svg&filetimestamp=20220705123832&) [OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/freecad) |  | [![](/images/thumb/7/79/Stripe-logo.png/128px-Stripe-logo.png)](/index.php?title=File:Stripe-logo.png&filetimestamp=20220718133635&) [Stripe](https://donate.stripe.com/14k3ei9TYgwFclq145)  
  
There are also always other ways to help instead of donating money or coding,
such as working on the documentation, on translations, or help new users to
find their way. See the [Help FreeCAD](/Help_FreeCAD "Help FreeCAD") page to
know more.

## More details about the different options

  * [![](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/b/b7/PayPal_Logo_Icon_2014.svg)](/File:PayPal_Logo_Icon_2014.svg) FreeCAD has an official [PayPal account](https://www.paypal.com/donate/?hosted_button_id=M3Z8BGW6DB69Q) where you can donate any amount by credit card or your own Paypal account, one time only or recurrently. The PayPal account is managed by the [FPA](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA). Paypal is a convenient platform but charges a fee on what FreeCAD receives.

  * [![](/images/thumb/a/a2/SepaLogoEN.jpg/24px-SepaLogoEN.jpg)](/index.php?title=File:SepaLogoEN.jpg&filetimestamp=20220705123319&) FreeCAD has an Euro bank account where you can transfer money directly via your own banking application. The IBAN number is BE04 0019 2896 4531, owned by the FreeCAD project association. The bank agency is BNP Paribas Fortis, address: Rue de la Station 64, 1360 Perwez, Belgium, BIC/SWIFT code: GEBABEBBXXX

  * [![](/images/7/7d/Opencollective_logo.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Opencollective_logo.svg&filetimestamp=20220705123832&) FreeCAD has an official [OpenCollective PayPal account](https://opencollective.com/freecad) where you can donate any amount, one time only or recurrently, via credit card, SEPA transfer or Paypal. The OpenCollective account is managed by the [FPA](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA). OpenCollective is a good option as it is independent and used by many open-source projects. OpenCollective is also a [501(c)(6)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/501\(c\)_organization) non-profit organization and can issue [donation receipts](https://docs.opencollective.com/help/financial-contributors/receipts) that may be useful for US taxpayers (though donations are not typically tax-deductible).

  * [![](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/b/b3/GitHub.svg)](/File:GitHub.svg) [GitHub sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/FreeCAD) is a sponsoring platform offered by GitHub, where the FreeCAD source code is hosted. There you can donate any amount monthly to FreeCAD, via credit card or Paypal. The GitHub sponsors account is managed by the [FPA](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA).

  * [![](/images/thumb/7/79/Stripe-logo.png/24px-Stripe-logo.png)](/index.php?title=File:Stripe-logo.png&filetimestamp=20220718133635&) FreeCAD has a [Stripe donation account](https://donate.stripe.com/14k3ei9TYgwFclq145) where you can make a one-time donation via a credit card.

  * You can help support the web hosting costs by donating directly to [Jürgen Riegel's paypal account](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?item_name=Donation+to+FreeCAD&cmd=_donations&business=Mail%40juergen-riegel.net). Jürgen is the original developer of FreeCAD.

## Funding a specific developer

  * Some FreeCAD developers have a shared [![](/images/7/72/Liberapay_logo.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Liberapay_logo.svg&filetimestamp=20200919022956&) [LiberaPay team account](https://liberapay.com/FreeCAD). There, you can donate any amount via credit card, Paypal or SEPA bank transfer, one time only or recurrently. Any money received is split equally among the listed developers. The Liberapay platform is also open-source and doesn't take any percentage on your donation. The LiberaPay account is managed directly by its members.

  * Some developers will do a specific task for money or can be sponsored to spend time working on FreeCAD. There have been a couple of successful experiments in the past, such as the [Path Workbench](/Path_Workbench "Path Workbench") or [Ian Rees's funding experiment](https://opendeveloperfunding.wordpress.com/). The following developers can be sponsored individually. Funding a developer individually can be a great way to focus your donation on a specific area of development of FreeCAD, that you have special interest in: 
    * [Yorik](/User:Yorik "User:Yorik") via [![yorikvanhavre](/images/thumb/3/3b/Patreonporange.png/20px-Patreonporange.png)](https://www.patreon.com/yorikvanhavre "yorikvanhavre") [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/yorikvanhavre), [![](/images/7/72/Liberapay_logo.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Liberapay_logo.svg&filetimestamp=20200919022956&) [Liberapay](https://liberapay.com/yorik) or [![](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/b/b3/GitHub.svg)](/File:GitHub.svg) [GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/yorikvanhavre) ([Draft](/Draft_Workbench "Draft Workbench"), [BIM](/BIM_Workbench "BIM Workbench"), IFC)
    * [Kurt Kremitzki](/User:Kkremitzki "User:Kkremitzki") via [![kkremitzki](/images/thumb/3/3b/Patreonporange.png/20px-Patreonporange.png)](https://www.patreon.com/kkremitzki "kkremitzki") [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/kkremitzki) or [![](/images/7/72/Liberapay_logo.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Liberapay_logo.svg&filetimestamp=20200919022956&) [Liberapay](https://liberapay.com/kkremitzki) (infrastructure, servers, packaging, Debian/Ubuntu)
    * Lei Zheng aka [Realthunder](https://github.com/realthunder) via [PayPal](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=2SM8GY3U2UUJN), [![](/images/7/72/Liberapay_logo.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Liberapay_logo.svg&filetimestamp=20200919022956&) [Liberapay](https://liberapay.com/realthunder/) or [![Patreon](/images/thumb/3/3b/Patreonporange.png/20px-Patreonporange.png)](/index.php?title=File:Patreonporange.png&filetimestamp=20170408195314& "Patreon") [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/thundereal) ([App Link](/App_Link "App Link"), [Assembly3](/Assembly3 "Assembly3"))
    * Lorenz aka looooo via [![](/images/7/72/Liberapay_logo.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Liberapay_logo.svg&filetimestamp=20200919022956&) [Liberapay](https://liberapay.com/looooo/donate) ([FCGears workbench](https://github.com/looooo/freecad.gears), [Conda](/Conda "Conda") packaging)
    * Amritpal Singh aka amrit3701 via [![](/images/7/72/Liberapay_logo.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Liberapay_logo.svg&filetimestamp=20200919022956&) [Liberapay](https://liberapay.com/amrit3701) or [![Patreon](/images/thumb/3/3b/Patreonporange.png/20px-Patreonporange.png)](/index.php?title=File:Patreonporange.png&filetimestamp=20170408195314& "Patreon") [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/amrit3701) ([Rebar addon](https://github.com/amrit3701/FreeCAD-Reinforcement))
    * Brad Collette aka sliptonic via [![](/images/7/72/Liberapay_logo.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Liberapay_logo.svg&filetimestamp=20200919022956&) [Liberapay](https://liberapay.com/sliptonic/donate) or [![Patreon](/images/thumb/3/3b/Patreonporange.png/20px-Patreonporange.png)](/index.php?title=File:Patreonporange.png&filetimestamp=20170408195314& "Patreon") [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/sliptonic) ([CAM Workbench](/CAM_Workbench "CAM Workbench"))
    * Ajinkya Dahale via [![](/images/7/72/Liberapay_logo.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Liberapay_logo.svg&filetimestamp=20200919022956&) [Liberapay](https://liberapay.com/ajinkyadahale/) or [![](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/b/b3/GitHub.svg)](/File:GitHub.svg) [GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/AjinkyaDahale/) ([B-Spline constraints project](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=9&t=71130) and general FreeCAD bugfixing/enhancing)
    * [Frank David Martínez](/User:Mnesarco "User:Mnesarco") via [![](/images/7/72/Liberapay_logo.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Liberapay_logo.svg&filetimestamp=20200919022956&) [Liberapay](https://liberapay.com/mnesarco/) ([Marz workbench](https://github.com/mnesarco/MarzWorkbench) for guitar design)

## Jobs

  * There might be other developers interested in doing specific work for the project; if you would like to accelerate the development of an idea or feature, consider employing a developer. It's up to you to build up an idea, discuss it on the forum, and find developers interested in doing it. You can offer a job in the [Job offers subforum](https://forum.freecad.org/viewforum.php?f=31).
  * Modelling jobs are also welcome. Not every experienced FreeCAD user is a developer. Experienced users can help you migrate your projects to FreeCAD, which contributes with popularizing the software in organizations. See [FreeCAD used in production](/FreeCAD_used_in_production "FreeCAD used in production").

## Sponsoring

We call sponsoring the act of donating money recurrently to the FreeCAD
project. You can do that as an individual or as a company or institution,
through different channels or platforms, depending on your preferences. You
can sponsor FreeCAD via the [sponsoring
page](https://www.freecad.org/sponsor.php).

Sponsoring FreeCAD allows its developers to count on a steady flow of income,
so it allows the FPA to plan things ahead, and the FreeCAD developers to
invest themselves more seriously into FreeCAD.

To encourage persons and companies to sponsor the FreeCAD project, we have
created different sponsoring tiers. By donating regularly to the project, you
will have the possibility to have your name, company name and/or logo to be
featured on the FreeCAD website, depending on the tier you fit into:

  * ♥ Normal sponsor: from 1 USD / 1 EUR per month. You will not have your name displayed on the [sponsors page](https://www.freecad.org/sponsor.php), but you will have helped the project a lot anyway. Together, normal sponsors maintain the project on its feet as much as the bigger sponsors.
  * 🥉 Bronze sponsor: from 25 USD / 25 EUR per month. Allows you to have your name or company name displayed on the [sponsors page](https://www.freecad.org/sponsor.php).
  * 🥈 Silver sponsor: from 100 USD / 100 EUR per month. Allows you to have your name or company name displayed on the [sponsors page](https://www.freecad.org/sponsor.php), with a link to your website, and a one-line description text.
  * 🥇 Gold sponsor: from 200 USD / 200 EUR per month. Allows you to have your name or company name and logo displayed on the [sponsors page](https://www.freecad.org/sponsor.php), with a link to your website and a custom description text. Companies that have helped FreeCAD early on will also appear under Gold sponsors.

Instead of donating each month, you might find it more comfortable to make a
one-time donation that, when divided by twelve, would give you right to enter
a sponsoring tier. Don't hesitate to do so!

## The FPA

The **FreeCAD project association** (FPA) is a non-profit association created
in 2022 by FreeCAD's administrators and core developers and seated in Belgium.
It is responsible for transparently collecting, handling and distributing the
money collected via donations. More details and reports are available on the
[FPA page](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FPA). Excepting the [LiberaPay team
account](https://liberapay.com/FreeCAD), which is directly manager by its
members, all other donation channels above are handled and managed by the FPA.

## Tax deductions

The FPA, although it is a non-profit organization, is not a charity
organization. People and companies donating to the FPA are therefore [not
entitled to a tax
deduction](https://finances.belgium.be/fr/particuliers/avantages_fiscaux/dons)
by Belgian law. Each country, however, has its own rules and laws to decide
upon what gives their citizen right to tax reduction or not. You are always
advised to consult the laws of your own country.

The FPA can anyway always issue a donation receipt. [Mail
us](mailto:fpa@freecad.org) with your donation details and we will gladly send
you a receipt.

Expand[![](/images/thumb/9/94/User_hub.png/24px-
User_hub.png)](/index.php?title=File:User_hub.png&filetimestamp=20190221145008&)
[User documentation](/User_hub "User hub")

  * **[Getting started](/Getting_started "Getting started")**
  * **Installation:** [Download](/Download "Download"), [Windows](/Installing_on_Windows "Installing on Windows"), [Linux](/Installing_on_Linux "Installing on Linux"), [Mac](/Installing_on_Mac "Installing on Mac"), [Additional components](/Installing_additional_components "Installing additional components"), [Docker](/Compile_on_Docker "Compile on Docker"), [AppImage](/AppImage "AppImage"), [Ubuntu Snap](/Ubuntu_Snap "Ubuntu Snap")
  * **Basics:** [About FreeCAD](/About_FreeCAD "About FreeCAD"), [Interface](/Interface "Interface"), [Mouse navigation](/Mouse_navigation "Mouse navigation"), [Selection methods](/Selection_methods "Selection methods"), [Object name](/Object_name "Object name"), [Preferences](/Preferences_Editor "Preferences Editor"), [Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"), [Document structure](/Document_structure "Document structure"), [Properties](/Property "Property"), [Help FreeCAD](/Help_FreeCAD "Help FreeCAD"), Donate

* * *

  * **Help:** [Tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials"), [Video tutorials](/Video_tutorials "Video tutorials")
  * **[Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"):** [Std Base](/Std_Base "Std Base"), [Assembly](/Assembly_Workbench "Assembly Workbench"), [BIM](/BIM_Workbench "BIM Workbench"), [CAM](/CAM_Workbench "CAM Workbench"), [Draft](/Draft_Workbench "Draft Workbench"), [FEM](/FEM_Workbench "FEM Workbench"), [Inspection](/Inspection_Workbench "Inspection Workbench"), [Material](/Material_Workbench "Material Workbench"), [Mesh](/Mesh_Workbench "Mesh Workbench"), [OpenSCAD](/OpenSCAD_Workbench "OpenSCAD Workbench"), [Part](/Part_Workbench "Part Workbench"), [PartDesign](/PartDesign_Workbench "PartDesign Workbench"), [Points](/Points_Workbench "Points Workbench"), [Reverse Engineering](/Reverse_Engineering_Workbench "Reverse Engineering Workbench"), [Robot](/Robot_Workbench "Robot Workbench"), [Sketcher](/Sketcher_Workbench "Sketcher Workbench"), [Spreadsheet](/Spreadsheet_Workbench "Spreadsheet Workbench"), [Surface](/Surface_Workbench "Surface Workbench"), [TechDraw](/TechDraw_Workbench "TechDraw Workbench"), [Test Framework](/Testing "Testing")

* * *

  * **[Addons](/Addon "Addon"):** [Addon Manager](/Std_AddonMgr "Std AddonMgr"), [External workbenches](/External_workbenches "External workbenches"), [Scripting and macros](/Scripting_and_macros "Scripting and macros")

* * *

  * **Hubs:** [User hub](/User_hub "User hub"), [Power users hub](/Power_users_hub "Power users hub"), [Developer hub](/Developer_hub "Developer hub")

