---
url: https://wiki.freecad.org/Draft_API
title: Draft API
scraped_at: 2025-09-08 16:42:20
---

# Draft API

  * [Page](/Draft_API "View the content page \[ctrl-option-c\]")
  * [Discussion](/index.php?title=Talk:Draft_API&action=edit&redlink=1 "Discussion about the content page \(page does not exist\) \[ctrl-option-t\]")

English

  * [Read](/Draft_API)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=Draft_API&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=Draft_API&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [Edit on GitHub](https://github.com/Reqrefusion/FreeCAD-Documentation-Project/blob/main/wiki/Draft_API.wikitext "Edit this page on GitHub")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=Draft_API&action=history "Past revisions of this page \[ctrl-option-h\]")

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * [Read](/Draft_API)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=Draft_API&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=Draft_API&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=Draft_API&action=history)

General

  * [What links here](/Special:WhatLinksHere/Draft_API "A list of all wiki pages that link here \[ctrl-option-j\]")
  * [Related changes](/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Draft_API "Recent changes in pages linked from this page \[ctrl-option-k\]")
  * [Special pages](/Special:SpecialPages "A list of all special pages \[ctrl-option-q\]")
  * [Permanent link](https://wiki.freecad.org/index.php?title=Draft_API&oldid=1602937 "Permanent link to this revision of this page")
  * [Page information](/index.php?title=Draft_API&action=info "More information about this page")
  * Expand all

Print/export

  * [Download as PDF](/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=Draft_API&action=show-download-screen)
  * [Printable version](javascript:print\(\); "Printable version of this page \[ctrl-option-p\]")

From FreeCAD Documentation

[Translate this page](/Special:Translate?group=page-
Draft+API&action=page&filter=&language=en)This is the approved revision of
this page, as well as being the most recent.

Other languages:

  * [](/index.php?title=Special:Translate&group=page-Draft+API&language=&task=view "Start translation for this language")
  * [Deutsch](/Draft_API/de "Draft API \(80% translated\)")
  * English
  * [Türkçe](/Draft_API/tr "Taslak API \(60% translated\)")
  * [español](/Draft_API/es "Draft API \(60% translated\)")
  * [français](/Draft_API/fr "API de l'atelier Draft \(100% translated\)")
  * [italiano](/Draft_API/it "Draft API \(100% translated\)")
  * [polski](/Draft_API/pl "Skrypty dla środowiska Rysunek Roboczy \(100% translated\)")
  * [română](/Draft_API/ro "Draft API \(60% translated\)")
  * [svenska](/Draft_API/sv "Draft API \(60% translated\)")
  * [čeština](/Draft_API/cs "Draft API \(20% translated\)")
  * [русский](/Draft_API/ru "Draft API \(80% translated\)")
  * [日本語](/Draft_API/ja "Draft API \(60% translated\)")

(November 2018) This information may be incomplete and outdated. For the
latest API, see the [autogenerated API
documentation](https://freecad.org/api).

These functions are part of the [Draft Workbench](/Draft_Workbench "Draft
Workbench") and can be used in [macros](/Macros "Macros") and from the
[Python](/Python "Python") console once the `Draft` module has been imported.

Example:

    
    
    import FreeCAD, Draft
    
    myrect = Draft.makeRectangle(4, 3)
    mydistance = FreeCAD.Vector(2, 2, 0)
    Draft.move(myrect, mydistance)
    

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**cut(**_FreeCAD.Object, FreeCAD.Object_**)**`

**Description** : Returns a cut object made from the difference of the 2 given
objects. The original objects get hidden.

**Returns** : The newly created object

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**extrude(**_FreeCAD.Object, Vector_**)**`

**Description** : Extrudes the given object in the direction given by the
vector. The original object gets hidden.

**Returns** : The newly created object

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**formatObject(**_FreeCAD.Object, [FreeCAD.Object]_**)**`

**Description** : This function applies to the given target object the current
properties set on the Draft toolbar (line color and line width), or copies the
properties of a second object if provided. It also places the object in
construction group if the construction button is pressed.

**Returns** : Nothing

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**fuse(**_FreeCAD.Object, FreeCAD.Object_**)**`

**Description** : Returns an object made from the union of the 2 given
objects. If the objects are coplanar, a special Draft Wire is used, otherwise
the final object is a standard Part fuse.

**Returns** : The newly created object

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**getDraftPath(**_[string]_**)**`

**Description** : Returns the user or system path where the Draft module is
running from. If a subpath or a filename is supplied, the full path to the
subpath inside the Draft module is returned.

**Returns** : A file path

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**getGroupContents(**_list_**)**`

**Description** : Scans recursively the given list for groups. If groups are
encountered, their contents are appended to the list.

**Returns** : A list of FreeCAD Objects

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**getRealName(**_string_**)**`

**Description** : Strips the trailing numbers from an object name.

**Returns** : The stripped object name

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**getSelection(**__**)**`

**Description** : Returns the current FreeCAD selection.

**Returns** : The current FreeCAD selection.

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**makeCircle(**_radius, [placement], [facemode], [startangle],
[endangle]_**)**`

**Description** : Creates a circle object with given radius. If a placement is
given, it is used. If facemode is False, the circle is shown as a wireframe,
otherwise as a face. If startangle AND endangle are given (in degrees), they
are used and the object appears as an arc.

**Returns** : The newly created object.

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**makeDimension(**_Vector, Vector, [Vector] or FreeCAD.Object, int, int,
[Vector]_**)**`

**Description** : Creates a Dimension object measuring distance between first
and second vectors, with the dimension line passign through the third vector
if provided. The current line width and color from the Draft toolbar will be
used. Instead of 2 vectors, you can also pass a FreeCAD object, and two
integers (and optionally a vector where the dimension line must pass). In that
case, the dimension will be associated with the object, and measure two of its
vertices, indicated by the two given indice numbers.

**Returns** : The newly created object.

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**makeLine(**_Vector, Vector_**)**`

**Description** : Creates a line between the two given vectors. The current
line width and color from the Draft toolbar will be used.

**Returns** : The newly created object.

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**makeRectangle(**_length, width, [placement], [facemode]_**)**`

**Description** : Creates a Rectangle object with length in X direction and
height in Y direction. If a placement is given, it is used. If facemode is
False, the rectangle is shown as a wireframe, otherwise as a face. The current
line width and color from the Draft toolbar will be used.

**Returns** : The newly created object.

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**makeText(**_string or list, [Vector], [screenmode]_**)**`

**Description** : Creates a Text object, at the given point if a vector is
provided, containing the string or the strings given in the list, one string
by line. The current color from the Draft toolbar and the text height and font
specified in preferences are used. If screenmode is True, the text always
faces the view direction, otherwise it lies on the XY plane.

**Returns** : The newly created object.

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**makeWire(**_list or Part.Wire, [closed], [placement], [facemode]_**)**`

**Description** : Creates a DWire object from the given list of vectors or
from the given Wire. If closed is True or if first and last points are
identical, the wire is closed. If facemode is True (and wire is closed), the
wire will appear filled. The current line width and color from the Draft
toolbar will be used.

**Returns** : A new Draft DWire (not a Part Wire).

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**move(**_FreeCAD.Object or list, Vector, [copymode]_**)**`

**Description** : Moves the given object or the objects contained in the given
list in the direction and distance indicated by the given vector. If copymode
is True, the actual objects are not moved, but copies are created instead.

**Returns** : The object(s) (or their copies if copymode was True).

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**precision(**__**)**`

**Description** : Returns the precision value from Draft user settings.

**Returns** : An integer.

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**rotate(**_FreeCAD.Object or list, angle, [center], [axis] ,[copymode]_**)**`

**Description** : Rotates the given object or the objects contained in the
given list with the given angle around the given center if provided, using
axis as a rotation axis. If axis is omitted, the rotation will be around the
vertical Z axis. If copymode is True, the actual objects are not moved, but
copies are created instead.

**Returns** : The objects (or their copies).

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**scale(**_FreeCAD.Object or list, vector, [center], [copymode]_**)**`

**Description** : Scales the given object or the objects contained in the
given list with a scale factors defined by the given vector (in X, Y and Z
directions) around the given center if provided. If copymode is True, the
actual objects are not moved, but copies are created instead.

**Returns** : The objects (or their copies).

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**select(**_FreeCAD.Object_**)**`

**Description** : Deselects everything and selects only the passed object

**Returns** : Nothing.

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**shapify(**_FreeCAD.Object_**)**`

**Description** : Transforms a parametric shape object into non-parametric.

**Returns** : The new object.

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**draftify(**_FreeCAD.Object or list_**)**`

**Description** : Turns the given object or each object of the given list into
Draft parametric wires.

**Returns** : Nothing.

[![](/images/2/20/Method.png)](/index.php?title=File:Method.png&filetimestamp=20100726023151&)`
**getSVG(**_FreeCAD.Object, [linemodifier], [textmodifier], [(u,v)]_**)**`

**Description** : Creates a SVG representation of the given object. The
linemodifier attribute is a scale factor (in percents) for line width, and
textmodifier for text size. You can also optionally provide a tuple of vectors
to define a projection plane, otherwise the geometry will be projected on the
XY plane.

**Returns** : a string containing a SVG representation of the given object.

Expand[![](/images/9/91/Workbench_Draft.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_Draft.svg&filetimestamp=20200404172706&)
[Draft](/Draft_Workbench "Draft Workbench")

  * **Drafting:** [Line](/Draft_Line "Draft Line"), [Polyline](/Draft_Wire "Draft Wire"), [Fillet](/Draft_Fillet "Draft Fillet"), [Arc](/Draft_Arc "Draft Arc"), [Arc From 3 Points](/Draft_Arc_3Points "Draft Arc 3Points"), [Circle](/Draft_Circle "Draft Circle"), [Ellipse](/Draft_Ellipse "Draft Ellipse"), [Rectangle](/Draft_Rectangle "Draft Rectangle"), [Polygon](/Draft_Polygon "Draft Polygon"), [B-Spline](/Draft_BSpline "Draft BSpline"), [Cubic Bézier Curve](/Draft_CubicBezCurve "Draft CubicBezCurve"), [Bézier Curve](/Draft_BezCurve "Draft BezCurve"), [Point](/Draft_Point "Draft Point"), [Facebinder](/Draft_Facebinder "Draft Facebinder"), [ShapeString](/Draft_ShapeString "Draft ShapeString"), [Hatch](/Draft_Hatch "Draft Hatch")
  * **Annotation:** [Text](/Draft_Text "Draft Text"), [Dimension](/Draft_Dimension "Draft Dimension"), [Label](/Draft_Label "Draft Label"), [Annotation Styles](/Draft_AnnotationStyleEditor "Draft AnnotationStyleEditor"), [Annotation Scale](/Draft_Scale_Widget "Draft Scale Widget")
  * **Modification:** [Move](/Draft_Move "Draft Move"), [Rotate](/Draft_Rotate "Draft Rotate"), [Scale](/Draft_Scale "Draft Scale"), [Mirror](/Draft_Mirror "Draft Mirror"), [Offset](/Draft_Offset "Draft Offset"), [Trimex](/Draft_Trimex "Draft Trimex"), [Stretch](/Draft_Stretch "Draft Stretch"), [Clone](/Draft_Clone "Draft Clone"), [Array](/Draft_OrthoArray "Draft OrthoArray"), [Polar Array](/Draft_PolarArray "Draft PolarArray"), [Circular Array](/Draft_CircularArray "Draft CircularArray"), [Path Array](/Draft_PathArray "Draft PathArray"), [Path Link Array](/Draft_PathLinkArray "Draft PathLinkArray"), [Point Array](/Draft_PointArray "Draft PointArray"), [Point Link Array](/Draft_PointLinkArray "Draft PointLinkArray"), [Edit](/Draft_Edit "Draft Edit"), [Highlight Subelements](/Draft_SubelementHighlight "Draft SubelementHighlight"), [Join](/Draft_Join "Draft Join"), [Split](/Draft_Split "Draft Split"), [Upgrade](/Draft_Upgrade "Draft Upgrade"), [Downgrade](/Draft_Downgrade "Draft Downgrade"), [Convert Wire/B-Spline](/Draft_WireToBSpline "Draft WireToBSpline"), [Draft to Sketch](/Draft_Draft2Sketch "Draft Draft2Sketch"), [Set Slope](/Draft_Slope "Draft Slope"), [Flip Dimension](/Draft_FlipDimension "Draft FlipDimension"), [Shape 2D View](/Draft_Shape2DView "Draft Shape2DView")

* * *

  * **[Draft Tray](/Draft_Tray "Draft Tray"):** [Working Plane](/Draft_SelectPlane "Draft SelectPlane"), [Set Style](/Draft_SetStyle "Draft SetStyle"), [Toggle Construction Mode](/Draft_ToggleConstructionMode "Draft ToggleConstructionMode"), [AutoGroup](/Draft_AutoGroup "Draft AutoGroup")
  * **[Snapping](/Draft_Snap "Draft Snap"):** [Snap Lock](/Draft_Snap_Lock "Draft Snap Lock"), [Snap Endpoint](/Draft_Snap_Endpoint "Draft Snap Endpoint"), [Snap Midpoint](/Draft_Snap_Midpoint "Draft Snap Midpoint"), [Snap Center](/Draft_Snap_Center "Draft Snap Center"), [Snap Angle](/Draft_Snap_Angle "Draft Snap Angle"), [Snap Intersection](/Draft_Snap_Intersection "Draft Snap Intersection"), [Snap Perpendicular](/Draft_Snap_Perpendicular "Draft Snap Perpendicular"), [Snap Extension](/Draft_Snap_Extension "Draft Snap Extension"), [Snap Parallel](/Draft_Snap_Parallel "Draft Snap Parallel"), [Snap Special](/Draft_Snap_Special "Draft Snap Special"), [Snap Near](/Draft_Snap_Near "Draft Snap Near"), [Snap Ortho](/Draft_Snap_Ortho "Draft Snap Ortho"), [Snap Grid](/Draft_Snap_Grid "Draft Snap Grid"), [Snap Working Plane](/Draft_Snap_WorkingPlane "Draft Snap WorkingPlane"), [Snap Dimensions](/Draft_Snap_Dimensions "Draft Snap Dimensions"), [Toggle Grid](/Draft_ToggleGrid "Draft ToggleGrid")

* * *

  * **Miscellaneous:** [Apply Current Style](/Draft_ApplyStyle "Draft ApplyStyle"), [New Layer](/Draft_Layer "Draft Layer"), [Manage Layers](/Draft_LayerManager "Draft LayerManager"), [New Named Group](/Draft_AddNamedGroup "Draft AddNamedGroup"), [SelectGroup](/Draft_SelectGroup "Draft SelectGroup"), [Add to Layer](/Draft_AddToLayer "Draft AddToLayer"), [Add to Group](/Draft_AddToGroup "Draft AddToGroup"), [Add to Construction Group](/Draft_AddConstruction "Draft AddConstruction"), [Toggle Wireframe](/Draft_ToggleDisplayMode "Draft ToggleDisplayMode"), [Working Plane Proxy](/Draft_WorkingPlaneProxy "Draft WorkingPlaneProxy"), [Heal](/Draft_Heal "Draft Heal"), [Show Snap Toolbar](/Draft_ShowSnapBar "Draft ShowSnapBar")
  * **Additional:** [Constraining](/Draft_Constrain "Draft Constrain"), [Pattern](/Draft_Pattern "Draft Pattern"), [Preferences](/Draft_Preferences "Draft Preferences"), [Import Export Preferences](/Import_Export_Preferences "Import Export Preferences"), [DXF/DWG](/Draft_DXF "Draft DXF"), [SVG](/Draft_SVG "Draft SVG"), [OCA](/Draft_OCA "Draft OCA"), [DAT](/Draft_DAT "Draft DAT")
  * **Context menu:**
    * **Most objects:** [Edit](/Draft_Edit "Draft Edit")
    * **Layer container:** [Add New Layer](/Draft_Layer#Layer_container_options "Draft Layer"), [Reassign Properties of All Layers](/Draft_Layer#Layer_container_options "Draft Layer"), [Merge Layer Duplicates](/Draft_Layer#Layer_container_options "Draft Layer")
    * **Layer:** [Activate Layer](/Draft_AutoGroup "Draft AutoGroup"), [Reassign Properties of Layer](/Draft_Layer#Layer_options "Draft Layer"), [Select Layer Contents](/Draft_SelectGroup "Draft SelectGroup")
    * **Text and label:** Open Links
    * **Wire:** Flatten
    * **Working plane proxy:** [Save Camera Position](/Draft_WorkingPlaneProxy#Context_menu "Draft WorkingPlaneProxy"), [Save Visibility of Objects](/Draft_WorkingPlaneProxy#Context_menu "Draft WorkingPlaneProxy")

Expand[![](/images/thumb/9/94/User_hub.png/24px-
User_hub.png)](/index.php?title=File:User_hub.png&filetimestamp=20190221145008&)
[User documentation](/User_hub "User hub")

  * **[Getting started](/Getting_started "Getting started")**
  * **Installation:** [Download](/Download "Download"), [Windows](/Installing_on_Windows "Installing on Windows"), [Linux](/Installing_on_Linux "Installing on Linux"), [Mac](/Installing_on_Mac "Installing on Mac"), [Additional components](/Installing_additional_components "Installing additional components"), [Docker](/Compile_on_Docker "Compile on Docker"), [AppImage](/AppImage "AppImage"), [Ubuntu Snap](/Ubuntu_Snap "Ubuntu Snap")
  * **Basics:** [About FreeCAD](/About_FreeCAD "About FreeCAD"), [Interface](/Interface "Interface"), [Mouse navigation](/Mouse_navigation "Mouse navigation"), [Selection methods](/Selection_methods "Selection methods"), [Object name](/Object_name "Object name"), [Preferences](/Preferences_Editor "Preferences Editor"), [Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"), [Document structure](/Document_structure "Document structure"), [Properties](/Property "Property"), [Help FreeCAD](/Help_FreeCAD "Help FreeCAD"), [Donate](/Donate "Donate")

* * *

  * **Help:** [Tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials"), [Video tutorials](/Video_tutorials "Video tutorials")
  * **[Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"):** [Std Base](/Std_Base "Std Base"), [Assembly](/Assembly_Workbench "Assembly Workbench"), [BIM](/BIM_Workbench "BIM Workbench"), [CAM](/CAM_Workbench "CAM Workbench"), [Draft](/Draft_Workbench "Draft Workbench"), [FEM](/FEM_Workbench "FEM Workbench"), [Inspection](/Inspection_Workbench "Inspection Workbench"), [Material](/Material_Workbench "Material Workbench"), [Mesh](/Mesh_Workbench "Mesh Workbench"), [OpenSCAD](/OpenSCAD_Workbench "OpenSCAD Workbench"), [Part](/Part_Workbench "Part Workbench"), [PartDesign](/PartDesign_Workbench "PartDesign Workbench"), [Points](/Points_Workbench "Points Workbench"), [Reverse Engineering](/Reverse_Engineering_Workbench "Reverse Engineering Workbench"), [Robot](/Robot_Workbench "Robot Workbench"), [Sketcher](/Sketcher_Workbench "Sketcher Workbench"), [Spreadsheet](/Spreadsheet_Workbench "Spreadsheet Workbench"), [Surface](/Surface_Workbench "Surface Workbench"), [TechDraw](/TechDraw_Workbench "TechDraw Workbench"), [Test Framework](/Testing "Testing")

* * *

  * **[Addons](/Addon "Addon"):** [Addon Manager](/Std_AddonMgr "Std AddonMgr"), [External workbenches](/External_workbenches "External workbenches"), [Scripting and macros](/Scripting_and_macros "Scripting and macros")

* * *

  * **Hubs:** [User hub](/User_hub "User hub"), [Power users hub](/Power_users_hub "Power users hub"), [Developer hub](/Developer_hub "Developer hub")

