---
url: https://wiki.freecad.org/Draft_Workbench
title: Draft Workbench
scraped_at: 2025-09-08 16:44:03
---

Toggle the table of contents

## Contents

move to sidebar hide

  * Beginning
  * 1 Introduction
  * 2 Drafting
  * 3 Annotation
  * 4 Modification
  * 5 Draft Tray
  * 6 Draft Scale Widget
  * 7 Draft Snap Widget
  * 8 Draft Snap toolbar
  * 9 Draft Utilities tools toolbar
  * 10 Additional tools
  * 11 Additional features
  * 12 Tree View context menu Toggle Tree View context menu subsection
    * 12.1 Default options
    * 12.2 Layer container options
    * 12.3 Layer options
    * 12.4 Text options
    * 12.5 Wire options
    * 12.6 Working plane proxy options
  * 13 3D View context menu Toggle 3D View context menu subsection
    * 13.1 Default options
    * 13.2 Text options
  * 14 Obsolete tools
  * 15 Preferences
  * 16 File formats
  * 17 Unit tests
  * 18 Scripting
  * 19 Tutorials

# Draft Workbench

  * [Page](/Draft_Workbench "View the content page \[ctrl-option-c\]")
  * [Discussion](/index.php?title=Talk:Draft_Workbench&action=edit&redlink=1 "Discussion about the content page \(page does not exist\) \[ctrl-option-t\]")

English

  * [Read](/Draft_Workbench)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=Draft_Workbench&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=Draft_Workbench&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [Edit on GitHub](https://github.com/Reqrefusion/FreeCAD-Documentation-Project/blob/main/wiki/Draft_Workbench.wikitext "Edit this page on GitHub")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=Draft_Workbench&action=history "Past revisions of this page \[ctrl-option-h\]")

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * [Read](/Draft_Workbench)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=Draft_Workbench&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=Draft_Workbench&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=Draft_Workbench&action=history)

General

  * [What links here](/Special:WhatLinksHere/Draft_Workbench "A list of all wiki pages that link here \[ctrl-option-j\]")
  * [Related changes](/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Draft_Workbench "Recent changes in pages linked from this page \[ctrl-option-k\]")
  * [Special pages](/Special:SpecialPages "A list of all special pages \[ctrl-option-q\]")
  * [Permanent link](https://wiki.freecad.org/index.php?title=Draft_Workbench&oldid=1638149 "Permanent link to this revision of this page")
  * [Page information](/index.php?title=Draft_Workbench&action=info "More information about this page")
  * Expand all

Print/export

  * [Download as PDF](/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=Draft_Workbench&action=show-download-screen)
  * [Printable version](javascript:print\(\); "Printable version of this page \[ctrl-option-p\]")

From FreeCAD Documentation

[Translate this page](/Special:Translate?group=page-
Draft+Workbench&action=page&filter=&language=en)This is the approved revision
of this page, as well as being the most recent.

Other languages:

  * [](/index.php?title=Special:Translate&group=page-Draft+Workbench&language=&task=view "Start translation for this language")
  * [Bahasa Indonesia](/Draft_Workbench/id "Draft Module \(0% translated\)")
  * [Deutsch](/Draft_Workbench/de "Arbeitsbereich Draft \(100% translated\)")
  * English
  * [Türkçe](/Draft_Workbench/tr "Taslak Tezgahı \(4% translated\)")
  * [español](/Draft_Workbench/es "Ambiente de trabajo Borrador \(17% translated\)")
  * [français](/Draft_Workbench/fr "Atelier Draft \(100% translated\)")
  * [hrvatski](/Draft_Workbench/hr "Nacrt Moduli \(1% translated\)")
  * [italiano](/Draft_Workbench/it "Ambiente Draft \(97% translated\)")
  * [magyar](/Draft_Workbench/hu "Draft Workbench/hu \(0% translated\)")
  * [polski](/Draft_Workbench/pl "Środowisko pracy Rysunek Roboczy \(100% translated\)")
  * [português](/Draft_Workbench/pt "Draft Module \(0% translated\)")
  * [português do Brasil](/Draft_Workbench/pt-br "Bancada de trabalho Draft \(7% translated\)")
  * [română](/Draft_Workbench/ro "Atelierul Draft \(Desen 2D\) \(4% translated\)")
  * [suomi](/Draft_Workbench/fi "Draft Workbench \(1% translated\)")
  * [svenska](/Draft_Workbench/sv "Draft Module \(2% translated\)")
  * [čeština](/Draft_Workbench/cs "Kreslicí modul \(2% translated\)")
  * [български](/Draft_Workbench/bg "Draft Module/bg \(0% translated\)")
  * [русский](/Draft_Workbench/ru "Верстак Draft \(8% translated\)")
  * [українська](/Draft_Workbench/uk "Draft Module \(0% translated\)")
  * [中文](/Draft_Workbench/zh "Draft Module \(0% translated\)")
  * [中文（中国大陆）](/Draft_Workbench/zh-cn "底图模块 \(4% translated\)")
  * [中文（臺灣）](/Draft_Workbench/zh-tw "草稿模組 \(1% translated\)")
  * [日本語](/Draft_Workbench/ja "ドラフトワークベンチ \(8% translated\)")
  * [한국어](/Draft_Workbench/ko "설계제도 작업대 \(4% translated\)")

![](/images/6/6f/Arrow-left.svg) ![](/images/9/95/Workbench_CAM.svg) [CAM
Workbench](/CAM_Workbench "CAM Workbench")

![](/images/8/87/Workbench_FEM.svg) [FEM Workbench](/FEM_Workbench "FEM
Workbench") ![](/images/a/af/Arrow-right.svg)

[Index](/Online_Help_Toc "Online Help Toc")
![](/images/7/76/Online_Help_Toc.svg)

[![](/images/9/91/Workbench_Draft.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_Draft.svg&filetimestamp=20200404172706&)Draft
workbench icon

## Introduction

The
[![](/images/9/91/Workbench_Draft.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_Draft.svg&filetimestamp=20200404172706&)
**Draft Workbench** is primarily focused on the creation and modification of
2D objects in FreeCAD. But it is not restricted to the XY-plane of the global
coordinate system. Its objects can have any orientation and position in 3D
space, and some Draft objects can either be planar or non-planar.

Draft objects can be used for general drafting, similar to what can be done
with Inkscape or AutoCAD. But they can also form the base for the creation of
3D objects in other workbenches. A [Draft Wire](/Draft_Wire "Draft Wire") may
define the path of an [Arch Wall](/Arch_Wall "Arch Wall"), a [Draft
Polygon](/Draft_Polygon "Draft Polygon") can be extruded with [Part
Extrude](/Part_Extrude "Part Extrude"), etc. Many of the Draft modifier tools
can be applied to 2D and 3D objects created with other workbenches as well.
You can, for example, [move](/Draft_Move "Draft Move") a
[Sketch](/Sketcher_Workbench "Sketcher Workbench") or create a [Draft
OrthoArray](/Draft_OrthoArray "Draft OrthoArray") from a
[Part](/Part_Workbench "Part Workbench") object.

The Draft Workbench also provides tools to define a [working
plane](/Draft_SelectPlane "Draft SelectPlane"), a [grid](/Draft_Snap_Grid
"Draft Snap Grid"), and a [snapping system](/Draft_Snap "Draft Snap") to
precisely control the position of geometry.

If your primary goal is the production of complex 2D drawings and [DXF](/DXF
"DXF") files, and you don't need 3D modelling, FreeCAD may not be the right
choice for you. You may wish to consider a dedicated software program for
technical drafting instead, such as
[LibreCAD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LibreCAD) or
[QCad](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/QCad).

[![](/images/1/19/Draft_Workbench_Example.png)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Workbench_Example.png&filetimestamp=20210917110058&)

The image shows the [grid](/Draft_Snap_Grid "Draft Snap Grid") aligned with
the XY-plane.  
On the left, in white, several planar objects.  
On the right a non-planar [Draft Wire](/Draft_Wire "Draft Wire") used as the
Path Object of a [Draft PathArray](/Draft_PathArray "Draft PathArray").

## Drafting

  * [![](/images/2/23/Draft_Line.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Line.svg&filetimestamp=20210319101803&) [Line](/Draft_Line "Draft Line"): creates a straight line.

  * [![](/images/1/10/Draft_Wire.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Wire.svg&filetimestamp=20210319103011&) [Polyline](/Draft_Wire "Draft Wire"): creates a polyline (also called wire), a sequence of several connected line segments.

  * [![](/images/6/67/Draft_Fillet.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Fillet.svg&filetimestamp=20210319101610&) [Fillet](/Draft_Fillet "Draft Fillet"): creates a fillet, a rounded corner, or a chamfer, a straight edge, between two selected edges.

  * [![](/images/e/ee/Draft_Arc.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Arc.svg&filetimestamp=20210319100639&)[![](/images/3/34/Toolbar_flyout_arrow_blue_background.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Toolbar_flyout_arrow_blue_background.svg&filetimestamp=20221006081506&) Arc Tools:

    

  * [![](/images/e/ee/Draft_Arc.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Arc.svg&filetimestamp=20210319100639&) [Arc](/Draft_Arc "Draft Arc"): creates a circular arc from a center, a radius, a start angle and an aperture angle.

    

  * [![](/images/4/49/Draft_Arc_3Points.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Arc_3Points.svg&filetimestamp=20210319100656&) [Arc From 3 Points](/Draft_Arc_3Points "Draft Arc 3Points"): creates a circular arc from three points that define its circumference.

  * [![](/images/b/b1/Draft_Circle.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Circle.svg&filetimestamp=20210319101000&) [Circle](/Draft_Circle "Draft Circle"): creates a circle from a center and a radius.

  * [![](/images/1/10/Draft_Ellipse.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Ellipse.svg&filetimestamp=20240513220403&) [Ellipse](/Draft_Ellipse "Draft Ellipse"): creates an ellipse from two points defining a rectangle in which the ellipse will fit.

  * [![](/images/d/da/Draft_Rectangle.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Rectangle.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102545&) [Rectangle](/Draft_Rectangle "Draft Rectangle"): creates a rectangle from two points.

  * [![](/images/9/91/Draft_Polygon.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Polygon.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102534&) [Polygon](/Draft_Polygon "Draft Polygon"): creates a regular polygon from a center and a radius.

  * [![](/images/b/b4/Draft_BSpline.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_BSpline.svg&filetimestamp=20210319100925&) [B-Spline](/Draft_BSpline "Draft BSpline"): creates a B-spline curve from several points.

  * [![](/images/5/59/Draft_CubicBezCurve.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_CubicBezCurve.svg&filetimestamp=20240513220259&)[![](/images/3/34/Toolbar_flyout_arrow_blue_background.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Toolbar_flyout_arrow_blue_background.svg&filetimestamp=20221006081506&) Bézier Tools:

    

  * [![](/images/5/59/Draft_CubicBezCurve.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_CubicBezCurve.svg&filetimestamp=20240513220259&) [Cubic Bézier Curve](/Draft_CubicBezCurve "Draft CubicBezCurve"): creates a Bézier curve of the third degree.

    

  * [![](/images/b/b9/Draft_BezCurve.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_BezCurve.svg&filetimestamp=20210319100832&) [Bézier Curve](/Draft_BezCurve "Draft BezCurve"): creates a Bézier curve from several points.

  * [![](/images/1/1e/Draft_Point.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Point.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102426&) [Point](/Draft_Point "Draft Point"): creates a simple point.

  * [![](/images/5/5a/Draft_Facebinder.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Facebinder.svg&filetimestamp=20210319101547&) [Facebinder](/Draft_Facebinder "Draft Facebinder"): creates a surface object from selected faces.

  * [![](/images/5/55/Draft_ShapeString.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_ShapeString.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102707&) [Shape From Text](/Draft_ShapeString "Draft ShapeString"): creates a compound shape that represents a text string.

  * [![](/images/6/62/Draft_Hatch.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Hatch.svg&filetimestamp=20210929161025&) [Hatch](/Draft_Hatch "Draft Hatch"): creates hatches on the planar faces of a selected object.

## Annotation

  * [![](/images/a/a7/Draft_Text.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Text.svg&filetimestamp=20240705090806&) [Text](/Draft_Text "Draft Text"): creates a multi-line text at a given point.

  * [![](/images/8/83/Draft_Dimension.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Dimension.svg&filetimestamp=20240513220314&) [Dimension](/Draft_Dimension "Draft Dimension"): creates a linear dimension, a radial dimension or an angular dimension.

  * [![](/images/1/12/Draft_Label.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Label.svg&filetimestamp=20240513220515&) [Label](/Draft_Label "Draft Label"): creates a multi-line text with a 2-segment leader line and an arrow.

  * [![](/images/6/63/Draft_AnnotationStyleEditor.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_AnnotationStyleEditor.svg&filetimestamp=20200513071606&) [Annotation Styles](/Draft_AnnotationStyleEditor "Draft AnnotationStyleEditor"): allows you to define styles that affect the visual properties of annotation-like objects.

## Modification

  * [![](/images/3/3c/Draft_Move.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Move.svg&filetimestamp=20210319101921&) [Move](/Draft_Move "Draft Move"): moves or copies selected objects from one point to another.

  * [![](/images/f/f0/Draft_Rotate.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Rotate.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102554&) [Rotate](/Draft_Rotate "Draft Rotate"): rotates or copies selected objects around a center point by a given angle.

  * [![](/images/1/1e/Draft_Scale.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Scale.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102628&) [Scale](/Draft_Scale "Draft Scale"): scales or copies selected objects around a base point.

  * [![](/images/4/4b/Draft_Mirror.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Mirror.svg&filetimestamp=20210319101909&) [Mirror](/Draft_Mirror "Draft Mirror"): creates mirrored copies from selected objects.

  * [![](/images/6/6c/Draft_Offset.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Offset.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102057&) [Offset](/Draft_Offset "Draft Offset"): offsets each segment of a selected object over a given distance, or creates an offset copy of the selected object.

  * [![](/images/e/e9/Draft_Trimex.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Trimex.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102910&) [Trimex](/Draft_Trimex "Draft Trimex"): trims or extends a selected object.

  * [![](/images/3/3e/Draft_Stretch.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Stretch.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102822&) [Stretch](/Draft_Stretch "Draft Stretch"): stretches objects by moving selected points.

  * [![](/images/3/36/Draft_Clone.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Clone.svg&filetimestamp=20210319101048&) [Clone](/Draft_Clone "Draft Clone"): creates linked copies, clones, of selected objects.

  * [![](/images/3/34/Draft_OrthoArray.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_OrthoArray.svg&filetimestamp=20200313192550&)[![](/images/3/34/Toolbar_flyout_arrow_blue_background.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Toolbar_flyout_arrow_blue_background.svg&filetimestamp=20221006081506&) Array Tools:

    

  * [![](/images/3/34/Draft_OrthoArray.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_OrthoArray.svg&filetimestamp=20200313192550&) [Array](/Draft_OrthoArray "Draft OrthoArray"): creates an orthogonal array from a selected object. It can optionally create a [Link](/App_Link "App Link") array.

    

  * [![](/images/c/c1/Draft_PolarArray.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_PolarArray.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102507&) [Polar Array](/Draft_PolarArray "Draft PolarArray"): creates an array from a selected object by placing copies along a circle. It can optionally create a [Link](/App_Link "App Link") array.

    

  * [![](/images/b/b3/Draft_CircularArray.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_CircularArray.svg&filetimestamp=20210319101012&) [Circular Array](/Draft_CircularArray "Draft CircularArray"): creates an array from a selected object by placing copies along concentric circles. It can optionally create a [Link](/App_Link "App Link") array.

    

  * [![](/images/0/07/Draft_PathArray.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_PathArray.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102244&) [Path Array](/Draft_PathArray "Draft PathArray"): creates an array from a selected object by placing copies along a path.

    

  * [![](/images/8/80/Draft_PathLinkArray.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_PathLinkArray.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102257&) [Path Link Array](/Draft_PathLinkArray "Draft PathLinkArray"): idem, but create a [Link](/App_Link "App Link") array instead of a regular array.

    

  * [![](/images/d/d4/Draft_PointArray.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_PointArray.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102438&) [Point Array](/Draft_PointArray "Draft PointArray"): creates an array from a selected object by placing copies at the points from a point compound.

    

  * [![](/images/c/ca/Draft_PointLinkArray.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_PointLinkArray.svg&filetimestamp=20200824040059&) [Point Link Array](/Draft_PointLinkArray "Draft PointLinkArray"): idem, but create a [Link](/App_Link "App Link") array instead of a regular array.

  * [![](/images/5/56/Draft_Edit.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Edit.svg&filetimestamp=20240513220349&) [Edit](/Draft_Edit "Draft Edit"): puts selected objects in Draft Edit mode. In this mode the properties of objects can be edited graphically.

  * [![](/images/3/33/Draft_SubelementHighlight.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_SubelementHighlight.svg&filetimestamp=20240513220821&) [Highlight Subelements](/Draft_SubelementHighlight "Draft SubelementHighlight"): temporarily highlights selected objects, or the base objects of selected objects.

  * [![](/images/e/ef/Draft_Join.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Join.svg&filetimestamp=20210319101730&) [Join](/Draft_Join "Draft Join"): joins [Draft Lines](/Draft_Line "Draft Line") and [Draft Wires](/Draft_Wire "Draft Wire") into a single wire.

  * [![](/images/a/a0/Draft_Split.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Split.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102812&) [Split](/Draft_Split "Draft Split"): splits a [Draft Line](/Draft_Line "Draft Line") or [Draft Wire](/Draft_Wire "Draft Wire") at a specified point or edge.

  * [![](/images/b/ba/Draft_Upgrade.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Upgrade.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102935&) [Upgrade](/Draft_Upgrade "Draft Upgrade"): upgrades selected objects.

  * [![](/images/8/84/Draft_Downgrade.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Downgrade.svg&filetimestamp=20210319101401&) [Downgrade](/Draft_Downgrade "Draft Downgrade"): downgrades selected objects.

  * [![](/images/8/80/Draft_WireToBSpline.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_WireToBSpline.svg&filetimestamp=20210319103024&) [Convert Wire/B-Spline](/Draft_WireToBSpline "Draft WireToBSpline"): converts [Draft Wires](/Draft_Wire "Draft Wire") to [Draft B-splines](/Draft_BSpline "Draft BSpline") and vice versa.

  * [![](/images/b/b2/Draft_Draft2Sketch.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Draft2Sketch.svg&filetimestamp=20210319101429&) [Draft to Sketch](/Draft_Draft2Sketch "Draft Draft2Sketch"): converts Draft objects to [Sketcher Sketches](/Sketcher_NewSketch "Sketcher NewSketch") and vice versa.

  * [![](/images/4/48/Draft_Slope.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Slope.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102728&) [Set Slope](/Draft_Slope "Draft Slope"): slopes selected [Draft Lines](/Draft_Line "Draft Line") or [Draft Wires](/Draft_Wire "Draft Wire") by increasing, or decreasing, the Z coordinate of all points after the first one.

  * [![](/images/e/e5/Draft_FlipDimension.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_FlipDimension.svg&filetimestamp=20210319101635&) [Flip Dimension](/Draft_FlipDimension "Draft FlipDimension"): rotates the dimension text of selected [Draft Dimensions](/Draft_Dimension "Draft Dimension") 180° around the dimension line.

  * [![](/images/e/e1/Draft_Shape2DView.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Shape2DView.svg&filetimestamp=20161214143345&) [Shape 2D View](/Draft_Shape2DView "Draft Shape2DView"): creates 2D projections from selected objects.

## Draft Tray

The [Draft Tray](/Draft_Tray "Draft Tray") allows selecting the working plane,
defining style settings, toggling construction mode, and specifying the active
layer or group.

[![](/images/1/1f/Draft_tray_default.png)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_tray_default.png&filetimestamp=20210724134112&)

  * [![](/images/8/86/Draft_tray_button_plane.png)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_tray_button_plane.png&filetimestamp=20210724134219&) [Working Plane](/Draft_SelectPlane "Draft SelectPlane"): defines the current Draft working plane. Also available in the menu: **Draft → Utilities →[![](/images/3/39/Draft_SelectPlane.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_SelectPlane.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102652&) Working Plane**.

  * [![](/images/8/89/Draft_tray_button_style.png)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_tray_button_style.png&filetimestamp=20210724134303&) [Set Style](/Draft_SetStyle "Draft SetStyle"): sets the default style for new objects. Also available in the menu: **Draft → Utilities →[![](/images/8/89/Draft_SetStyle.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_SetStyle.svg&filetimestamp=20210721093651&) Set Style**.

  * [![](/images/3/3a/Draft_tray_button_construction.png)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_tray_button_construction.png&filetimestamp=20210724134342&) [Toggle Construction Mode](/Draft_ToggleConstructionMode "Draft ToggleConstructionMode"): switches Draft construction mode on or off. Also available in the menu: **Draft → Utilities →[![](/images/4/49/Draft_ToggleConstructionMode.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_ToggleConstructionMode.svg&filetimestamp=20190511000823&) Toggle Construction Mode**.

  * [![](/images/9/93/Draft_tray_button_layer.png)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_tray_button_layer.png&filetimestamp=20210724134408&) [AutoGroup](/Draft_AutoGroup "Draft AutoGroup"): changes the active [Draft Layer](/Draft_Layer "Draft Layer") or, optionally, the active [Std Group](/Std_Group "Std Group") or group-like [BIM](/BIM_Workbench "BIM Workbench") object.

## Draft Scale Widget

With the [Draft Scale Widget](/Draft_Scale_Widget "Draft Scale Widget") the
Draft annotation scale can be specified.

[![](/images/9/9c/Draft_annotation_scale_widget_button.png)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_annotation_scale_widget_button.png&filetimestamp=20221122160525&)

## Draft Snap Widget

The [Draft Snap Widget](/Draft_Snap_Widget "Draft Snap Widget") can be used as
an alternative for the Draft Snap toolbar.

[![](/images/b/b9/Draft_snap_widget_button.png)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_snap_widget_button.png&filetimestamp=20221122160556&)

## Draft Snap toolbar

With the Draft Snap toolbar the active snap options can be selected. The
buttons belonging to active options stay depressed. For general information
about snapping see: [Draft Snap](/Draft_Snap "Draft Snap").

  * [![](/images/7/7d/Draft_Snap_Lock.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Snap_Lock.svg&filetimestamp=20221118213315&) [Snap Lock](/Draft_Snap_Lock "Draft Snap Lock"): enables or disables snapping globally.

  * [![](/images/7/73/Draft_Snap_Endpoint.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Snap_Endpoint.svg&filetimestamp=20221118213230&) [Snap Endpoint](/Draft_Snap_Endpoint "Draft Snap Endpoint"): snaps to the endpoints of edges.

  * [![](/images/a/ab/Draft_Snap_Midpoint.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Snap_Midpoint.svg&filetimestamp=20221118213323&) [Snap Midpoint](/Draft_Snap_Midpoint "Draft Snap Midpoint"): snaps to the midpoint of edges.

  * [![](/images/3/39/Draft_Snap_Center.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Snap_Center.svg&filetimestamp=20221118213203&) [Snap Center](/Draft_Snap_Center "Draft Snap Center"): snaps to the center point of faces and circular edges, and to the Data**Placement** point of [Draft WorkingPlaneProxies](/Draft_WorkingPlaneProxy "Draft WorkingPlaneProxy") and [Arch BuildingParts](/Arch_BuildingPart "Arch BuildingPart").

  * [![](/images/3/3e/Draft_Snap_Angle.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Snap_Angle.svg&filetimestamp=20221118213143&) [Snap Angle](/Draft_Snap_Angle "Draft Snap Angle"): snaps to the special cardinal points on circular edges, at multiples of 30° and 45°.

  * [![](/images/8/81/Draft_Snap_Intersection.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Snap_Intersection.svg&filetimestamp=20221118213303&) [Snap Intersection](/Draft_Snap_Intersection "Draft Snap Intersection"): snaps to the intersection of two edges, and ([introduced in 1.1](/Release_notes_1.1 "Release notes 1.1")) the intersection of a face and an edge.

  * [![](/images/b/ba/Draft_Snap_Perpendicular.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Snap_Perpendicular.svg&filetimestamp=20221118213404&) [Snap Perpendicular](/Draft_Snap_Perpendicular "Draft Snap Perpendicular"): snaps to the perpendicular points on faces ([introduced in 0.21](/Release_notes_0.21 "Release notes 0.21")) and edges.

  * [![](/images/b/bb/Draft_Snap_Extension.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Snap_Extension.svg&filetimestamp=20221118213241&) [Snap Extension](/Draft_Snap_Extension "Draft Snap Extension"): snaps to an imaginary line that extends beyond the endpoints of straight edges.

  * [![](/images/d/d3/Draft_Snap_Parallel.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Snap_Parallel.svg&filetimestamp=20221118213354&) [Snap Parallel](/Draft_Snap_Parallel "Draft Snap Parallel"): snaps to an imaginary line parallel to straight edges.

  * [![](/images/3/30/Draft_Snap_Special.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Snap_Special.svg&filetimestamp=20221118213414&) [Snap Special](/Draft_Snap_Special "Draft Snap Special"): snaps to special points defined by the object.

  * [![](/images/4/4d/Draft_Snap_Near.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Snap_Near.svg&filetimestamp=20221118213334&) [Snap Near](/Draft_Snap_Near "Draft Snap Near"): snaps to the nearest point on faces and edges.

  * [![](/images/6/6b/Draft_Snap_Ortho.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Snap_Ortho.svg&filetimestamp=20221118213345&) [Snap Ortho](/Draft_Snap_Ortho "Draft Snap Ortho"): snaps to imaginary lines that cross the previous point at multiples of 45°.

  * [![](/images/9/9a/Draft_Snap_Grid.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Snap_Grid.svg&filetimestamp=20240513220745&) [Snap Grid](/Draft_Snap_Grid "Draft Snap Grid"): snaps to the intersections of grid lines.

  * [![](/images/6/69/Draft_Snap_WorkingPlane.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Snap_WorkingPlane.svg&filetimestamp=20221118213424&) [Snap Working Plane](/Draft_Snap_WorkingPlane "Draft Snap WorkingPlane"): projects snap points onto the current [working plane](/Draft_SelectPlane "Draft SelectPlane").

  * [![](/images/e/eb/Draft_Snap_Dimensions.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Snap_Dimensions.svg&filetimestamp=20240513220715&) [Snap Dimensions](/Draft_Snap_Dimensions "Draft Snap Dimensions"): shows temporary X and Y dimensions.

  * [![](/images/c/c9/Draft_ToggleGrid.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_ToggleGrid.svg&filetimestamp=20190511001756&) [Toggle Grid](/Draft_ToggleGrid "Draft ToggleGrid"): changes the visibility of the grid.

## Draft Utilities tools toolbar

  * [![](/images/7/78/Draft_LayerManager.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_LayerManager.svg&filetimestamp=20240513220609&) [Manage Layers](/Draft_LayerManager "Draft LayerManager"): allows to manage the layers in a document. [introduced in 0.21](/Release_notes_0.21 "Release notes 0.21")

  * [![](/images/b/b0/Draft_AddNamedGroup.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_AddNamedGroup.svg&filetimestamp=20210929161047&) [New Named Group](/Draft_AddNamedGroup "Draft AddNamedGroup"): creates a named [Std Group](/Std_Group "Std Group") and adds objects to that group.

  * [![](/images/5/5f/Draft_SelectGroup.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_SelectGroup.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102641&) [Select Group](/Draft_SelectGroup "Draft SelectGroup"): selects the contents of [Std Groups](/Std_Group "Std Group") or group-like [BIM](/BIM_Workbench "BIM Workbench") objects.

  * [![](/images/1/1a/Draft_AddToLayer.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_AddToLayer.svg&filetimestamp=20250215171911&) [Add to Layer](/Draft_AddToLayer "Draft AddToLayer"): adds objects to a layer, or removes them from any layer. [introduced in 1.1](/Release_notes_1.1 "Release notes 1.1")

  * [![](/images/e/e4/Draft_AddToGroup.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_AddToGroup.svg&filetimestamp=20210319100550&) [Add to Group](/Draft_AddToGroup "Draft AddToGroup"): adds objects to a [Std Group](/Std_Group "Std Group"). It can also ungroup objects.

  * [![](/images/e/e4/Draft_AddConstruction.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_AddConstruction.svg&filetimestamp=20210319100501&) [Add to Construction Group](/Draft_AddConstruction "Draft AddConstruction"): adds objects to the [Draft construction group](/Draft_ToggleConstructionMode "Draft ToggleConstructionMode").

  * [![](/images/0/01/Draft_ToggleDisplayMode.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_ToggleDisplayMode.svg&filetimestamp=20190511001155&) [Toggle Wireframe](/Draft_ToggleDisplayMode "Draft ToggleDisplayMode"): switches the View**Display Mode** property of selected objects between `Flat Lines` and `Wireframe`.

  * [![](/images/f/f1/Draft_WorkingPlaneProxy.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_WorkingPlaneProxy.svg&filetimestamp=20210615195315&) [Working Plane Proxy](/Draft_WorkingPlaneProxy "Draft WorkingPlaneProxy"): creates a working plane proxy to save the current [Draft working plane](/Draft_SelectPlane "Draft SelectPlane").

## Additional tools

The **Draft → Utilities** menu contains several tools. Most of them can also
be accessed from toolbars or the [Draft Tray](/Draft_Tray "Draft Tray") and
have already been mentioned above. For the following tools this is not the
case:

  * [![](/images/d/d4/Draft_ApplyStyle.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_ApplyStyle.svg&filetimestamp=20210721093608&) [Apply Current Style](/Draft_ApplyStyle "Draft ApplyStyle"): applies the current style settings to selected objects.

  * [![](/images/9/98/Draft_Layer.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Layer.svg&filetimestamp=20250219140430&) [New Layer](/Draft_Layer "Draft Layer"): creates a [Draft Layer](/Draft_Layer "Draft Layer").

  * [![](/images/5/56/Draft_Heal.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Heal.svg&filetimestamp=20210319101720&) [Heal](/Draft_Heal "Draft Heal"): heals problematic Draft objects found in very old files.

  * [![](/images/1/1b/Draft_ShowSnapBar.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_ShowSnapBar.svg&filetimestamp=20190511001919&) [Show Snap Toolbar](/Draft_ShowSnapBar "Draft ShowSnapBar"): shows the Draft Snap toolbar.

## Additional features

  * [Working plane](/Draft_SelectPlane "Draft SelectPlane"): the plane in the [3D View](/3D_View "3D View") where new Draft objects are created.
  * [Snapping](/Draft_Snap "Draft Snap"): select exact geometric points on, or defined by, existing objects or the grid.
  * [Constraining](/Draft_Constrain "Draft Constrain"): for each subsequent point you can constrain the movement of the cursor to the X, Y, or Z direction.
  * [Construction mode](/Draft_ToggleConstructionMode "Draft ToggleConstructionMode"): places new Draft objects in a dedicated group making it easier to hide or delete them.
  * [Pattern](/Draft_Pattern "Draft Pattern"): Draft objects with a Data**Make Face** property can display an SVG pattern instead of a solid face color.

## Tree View context menu

The following additional options are available in the [Tree View](/Tree_View
"Tree View") context menu:

### Default options

For most Draft objects the following option is available:

  * Edit: edits the object. Depending on the object type either [Draft Edit](/Draft_Edit "Draft Edit") or a dedicated edit solution is used. [introduced in 0.21](/Release_notes_0.21 "Release notes 0.21")

If there is an active document the context menu contains an additional sub-
menu:

  * Utilities: a subset of the tools available in the main Draft Utilities menu.

### Layer container options

For a [Draft LayerContainer](/Draft_Layer "Draft Layer") these additional
options are available:

  * [![](/images/7/78/Draft_NewLayer.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_NewLayer.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102003&) [Add New Layer](/Draft_Layer#Layer_container_options "Draft Layer"): adds a new layer to the current document.

  * [![](/images/8/89/Draft_SetStyle.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_SetStyle.svg&filetimestamp=20210721093651&) [Reassign Properties of All Layers](/Draft_Layer#Layer_container_options "Draft Layer"): removes overrides from objects in all layers. [introduced in 1.1](/Release_notes_1.1 "Release notes 1.1")

  * [![](/images/5/5e/Draft_Layers.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Layers.svg&filetimestamp=20250219144200&) [Merge Layer Duplicates](/Draft_Layer#Layer_container_options "Draft Layer"): merges all layers with the same base label.

### Layer options

For a [Draft Layer](/Draft_Layer "Draft Layer") these additional options are
available:

  * [![](/images/5/52/Button_right.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Button_right.svg&filetimestamp=20240704191313&) [Activate Layer](/Draft_AutoGroup "Draft AutoGroup"): activates the selected layer.

  * [![](/images/8/89/Draft_SetStyle.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_SetStyle.svg&filetimestamp=20210721093651&) [Reassign Properties of Layer](/Draft_Layer#Layer_options "Draft Layer"): removes overrides from objects in the layer. [introduced in 1.1](/Release_notes_1.1 "Release notes 1.1")

  * [![](/images/5/5f/Draft_SelectGroup.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_SelectGroup.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102641&) [Select Layer Contents](/Draft_SelectGroup "Draft SelectGroup"): selects the objects inside the selected layer.

### Text options

For a [Draft Text](/Draft_Text "Draft Text") and a [Draft Label](/Draft_Label
"Draft Label") that contains one or more hyperlinks, to a local or remote file
or an URL, this additional option is available:

  * Open Links: the hyperlinks are opened in the appropriate application (as defined by the OS). There is a warning in the case of multiple hyperlinks. [introduced in 1.0](/Release_notes_1.0 "Release notes 1.0")

### Wire options

For a [Draft Line](/Draft_Line "Draft Line") and a [Draft Wire](/Draft_Wire
"Draft Wire") this additional option is available:

  * [![](/images/5/56/Draft_Edit.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Edit.svg&filetimestamp=20240513220349&) Flatten: flattens the wire on the current [Draft working plane](/Draft_SelectPlane "Draft SelectPlane").

### Working plane proxy options

For a [Draft WorkingPlaneProxy](/Draft_WorkingPlaneProxy "Draft
WorkingPlaneProxy") these additional options are available:

  * [![](/images/3/39/Draft_SelectPlane.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_SelectPlane.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102652&) [Save Camera Position](/Draft_WorkingPlaneProxy#Context_menu "Draft WorkingPlaneProxy"): updates the View**View Data** property of the working plane proxy with the current [3D View](/3D_View "3D View") camera settings.

  * [![](/images/3/39/Draft_SelectPlane.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_SelectPlane.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102652&) [Save Visibility of Objects](/Draft_WorkingPlaneProxy#Context_menu "Draft WorkingPlaneProxy"): updates the View**Visibility Map** property of the working plane proxy with the current visibility state of objects in the document.

## 3D View context menu

The following additional options are available in the [3D View](/3D_View "3D
View") context menu:

### Default options

If there is an active document the context menu contains one additional sub-
menu:

  * Utilities: a subset of the tools available in the main Draft Utilities menu.

### Text options

See above.

## Obsolete tools

  * [![](/images/1/17/Draft_Array.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Array.svg&filetimestamp=20210319100719&) [Array](/Draft_Array "Draft Array"): creates an orthogonal array from a selected object. The created array can be turned into a [polar array](/Draft_PolarArray "Draft PolarArray") or a [circular array](/Draft_CircularArray "Draft CircularArray") by changing its Data**Array Type** property. Not available in 0.21 and above.

  * [![](/images/2/25/Draft_Drawing.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Drawing.svg&filetimestamp=20210319101441&) [Drawing](/Draft_Drawing "Draft Drawing"): inserts views of selected objects into a [drawing](/Drawing_Workbench "Drawing Workbench") page. Not available in 0.21 and above.

  * [![](/images/1/1f/Draft_ToggleContinueMode.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_ToggleContinueMode.svg&filetimestamp=20210616112751&) [Toggle continue mode](/Draft_ToggleContinueMode "Draft ToggleContinueMode"): switches continue mode on or off. Not available in 1.0 and above.

## Preferences

  * [![](/images/e/e2/Preferences-draft.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Preferences-draft.svg&filetimestamp=20210319103102&) [Preferences](/Draft_Preferences "Draft Preferences"): general preferences for the Draft Workbench.

  * [![](/images/2/29/Preferences-import-export.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Preferences-import-export.svg&filetimestamp=20240704194838&) [Import Export Preferences](/Import_Export_Preferences "Import Export Preferences"): preferences available for importing from and exporting to different file formats.

## File formats

The Draft Workbench provides FreeCAD with importers and exporters for several
file formats. These are used by the [Std Import](/Std_Import "Std Import") and
[Std Export](/Std_Export "Std Export") commands.

  * [Autodesk .DXF](/Draft_DXF "Draft DXF"): imports and exports [Drawing Exchange Format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AutoCAD_DXF) files. See also [FreeCAD and DXF Import](/FreeCAD_and_DXF_Import "FreeCAD and DXF Import").
  * [Autodesk .DWG](/Draft_DXF "Draft DXF"): imports and exports DWG files via an external DWG converter. See also [FreeCAD and DWG Import](/FreeCAD_and_DWG_Import "FreeCAD and DWG Import").
  * [Scalable Vector Graphics .SVG](/Draft_SVG "Draft SVG"): imports and exports [Scalable Vector Graphics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalable_Vector_Graphics) files.
  * [Open Cad Format .OCA](/Draft_OCA "Draft OCA"): imports and exports [OCA/GCAD](http://groups.google.com/group/open_cad_format) files.
  * [Airfoil Data Format .DAT](/Draft_DAT "Draft DAT"): imports DAT files describing Airfoil profiles.

## Unit tests

See also: [Test Workbench](/Testing "Testing").

To run the unit tests of the workbench execute the following from the
operating system terminal:

    
    
    freecad -t TestDraft
    

## Scripting

See also: [Autogenerated API
documentation](https://freecad.github.io/SourceDoc/) and [FreeCAD Scripting
Basics](/FreeCAD_Scripting_Basics "FreeCAD Scripting Basics").

The workbench includes a module to create samples of all objects in a new
document.

Use this to test that all objects are produced correctly:

    
    
    import drafttests.draft_test_objects as dto
    doc = dto.create_test_file()
    

Inspecting the code of this module can help to understand the programming
interface.

## Tutorials

  * [Draft tutorial](/Draft_tutorial "Draft tutorial")
  * [Draft ShapeString tutorial](/Draft_ShapeString_tutorial "Draft ShapeString tutorial")

  

![](/images/6/6f/Arrow-left.svg) ![](/images/9/95/Workbench_CAM.svg) [CAM
Workbench](/CAM_Workbench "CAM Workbench")

![](/images/8/87/Workbench_FEM.svg) [FEM Workbench](/FEM_Workbench "FEM
Workbench") ![](/images/a/af/Arrow-right.svg)

[Index](/Online_Help_Toc "Online Help Toc")
![](/images/7/76/Online_Help_Toc.svg)

Expand[![](/images/9/91/Workbench_Draft.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_Draft.svg&filetimestamp=20200404172706&)
Draft

  * **Drafting:** [Line](/Draft_Line "Draft Line"), [Polyline](/Draft_Wire "Draft Wire"), [Fillet](/Draft_Fillet "Draft Fillet"), [Arc](/Draft_Arc "Draft Arc"), [Arc From 3 Points](/Draft_Arc_3Points "Draft Arc 3Points"), [Circle](/Draft_Circle "Draft Circle"), [Ellipse](/Draft_Ellipse "Draft Ellipse"), [Rectangle](/Draft_Rectangle "Draft Rectangle"), [Polygon](/Draft_Polygon "Draft Polygon"), [B-Spline](/Draft_BSpline "Draft BSpline"), [Cubic Bézier Curve](/Draft_CubicBezCurve "Draft CubicBezCurve"), [Bézier Curve](/Draft_BezCurve "Draft BezCurve"), [Point](/Draft_Point "Draft Point"), [Facebinder](/Draft_Facebinder "Draft Facebinder"), [ShapeString](/Draft_ShapeString "Draft ShapeString"), [Hatch](/Draft_Hatch "Draft Hatch")
  * **Annotation:** [Text](/Draft_Text "Draft Text"), [Dimension](/Draft_Dimension "Draft Dimension"), [Label](/Draft_Label "Draft Label"), [Annotation Styles](/Draft_AnnotationStyleEditor "Draft AnnotationStyleEditor"), [Annotation Scale](/Draft_Scale_Widget "Draft Scale Widget")
  * **Modification:** [Move](/Draft_Move "Draft Move"), [Rotate](/Draft_Rotate "Draft Rotate"), [Scale](/Draft_Scale "Draft Scale"), [Mirror](/Draft_Mirror "Draft Mirror"), [Offset](/Draft_Offset "Draft Offset"), [Trimex](/Draft_Trimex "Draft Trimex"), [Stretch](/Draft_Stretch "Draft Stretch"), [Clone](/Draft_Clone "Draft Clone"), [Array](/Draft_OrthoArray "Draft OrthoArray"), [Polar Array](/Draft_PolarArray "Draft PolarArray"), [Circular Array](/Draft_CircularArray "Draft CircularArray"), [Path Array](/Draft_PathArray "Draft PathArray"), [Path Link Array](/Draft_PathLinkArray "Draft PathLinkArray"), [Point Array](/Draft_PointArray "Draft PointArray"), [Point Link Array](/Draft_PointLinkArray "Draft PointLinkArray"), [Edit](/Draft_Edit "Draft Edit"), [Highlight Subelements](/Draft_SubelementHighlight "Draft SubelementHighlight"), [Join](/Draft_Join "Draft Join"), [Split](/Draft_Split "Draft Split"), [Upgrade](/Draft_Upgrade "Draft Upgrade"), [Downgrade](/Draft_Downgrade "Draft Downgrade"), [Convert Wire/B-Spline](/Draft_WireToBSpline "Draft WireToBSpline"), [Draft to Sketch](/Draft_Draft2Sketch "Draft Draft2Sketch"), [Set Slope](/Draft_Slope "Draft Slope"), [Flip Dimension](/Draft_FlipDimension "Draft FlipDimension"), [Shape 2D View](/Draft_Shape2DView "Draft Shape2DView")

* * *

  * **[Draft Tray](/Draft_Tray "Draft Tray"):** [Working Plane](/Draft_SelectPlane "Draft SelectPlane"), [Set Style](/Draft_SetStyle "Draft SetStyle"), [Toggle Construction Mode](/Draft_ToggleConstructionMode "Draft ToggleConstructionMode"), [AutoGroup](/Draft_AutoGroup "Draft AutoGroup")
  * **[Snapping](/Draft_Snap "Draft Snap"):** [Snap Lock](/Draft_Snap_Lock "Draft Snap Lock"), [Snap Endpoint](/Draft_Snap_Endpoint "Draft Snap Endpoint"), [Snap Midpoint](/Draft_Snap_Midpoint "Draft Snap Midpoint"), [Snap Center](/Draft_Snap_Center "Draft Snap Center"), [Snap Angle](/Draft_Snap_Angle "Draft Snap Angle"), [Snap Intersection](/Draft_Snap_Intersection "Draft Snap Intersection"), [Snap Perpendicular](/Draft_Snap_Perpendicular "Draft Snap Perpendicular"), [Snap Extension](/Draft_Snap_Extension "Draft Snap Extension"), [Snap Parallel](/Draft_Snap_Parallel "Draft Snap Parallel"), [Snap Special](/Draft_Snap_Special "Draft Snap Special"), [Snap Near](/Draft_Snap_Near "Draft Snap Near"), [Snap Ortho](/Draft_Snap_Ortho "Draft Snap Ortho"), [Snap Grid](/Draft_Snap_Grid "Draft Snap Grid"), [Snap Working Plane](/Draft_Snap_WorkingPlane "Draft Snap WorkingPlane"), [Snap Dimensions](/Draft_Snap_Dimensions "Draft Snap Dimensions"), [Toggle Grid](/Draft_ToggleGrid "Draft ToggleGrid")

* * *

  * **Miscellaneous:** [Apply Current Style](/Draft_ApplyStyle "Draft ApplyStyle"), [New Layer](/Draft_Layer "Draft Layer"), [Manage Layers](/Draft_LayerManager "Draft LayerManager"), [New Named Group](/Draft_AddNamedGroup "Draft AddNamedGroup"), [SelectGroup](/Draft_SelectGroup "Draft SelectGroup"), [Add to Layer](/Draft_AddToLayer "Draft AddToLayer"), [Add to Group](/Draft_AddToGroup "Draft AddToGroup"), [Add to Construction Group](/Draft_AddConstruction "Draft AddConstruction"), [Toggle Wireframe](/Draft_ToggleDisplayMode "Draft ToggleDisplayMode"), [Working Plane Proxy](/Draft_WorkingPlaneProxy "Draft WorkingPlaneProxy"), [Heal](/Draft_Heal "Draft Heal"), [Show Snap Toolbar](/Draft_ShowSnapBar "Draft ShowSnapBar")
  * **Additional:** [Constraining](/Draft_Constrain "Draft Constrain"), [Pattern](/Draft_Pattern "Draft Pattern"), [Preferences](/Draft_Preferences "Draft Preferences"), [Import Export Preferences](/Import_Export_Preferences "Import Export Preferences"), [DXF/DWG](/Draft_DXF "Draft DXF"), [SVG](/Draft_SVG "Draft SVG"), [OCA](/Draft_OCA "Draft OCA"), [DAT](/Draft_DAT "Draft DAT")
  * **Context menu:**
    * **Most objects:** [Edit](/Draft_Edit "Draft Edit")
    * **Layer container:** [Add New Layer](/Draft_Layer#Layer_container_options "Draft Layer"), [Reassign Properties of All Layers](/Draft_Layer#Layer_container_options "Draft Layer"), [Merge Layer Duplicates](/Draft_Layer#Layer_container_options "Draft Layer")
    * **Layer:** [Activate Layer](/Draft_AutoGroup "Draft AutoGroup"), [Reassign Properties of Layer](/Draft_Layer#Layer_options "Draft Layer"), [Select Layer Contents](/Draft_SelectGroup "Draft SelectGroup")
    * **Text and label:** Open Links
    * **Wire:** Flatten
    * **Working plane proxy:** [Save Camera Position](/Draft_WorkingPlaneProxy#Context_menu "Draft WorkingPlaneProxy"), [Save Visibility of Objects](/Draft_WorkingPlaneProxy#Context_menu "Draft WorkingPlaneProxy")

Expand[![](/images/thumb/9/94/User_hub.png/24px-
User_hub.png)](/index.php?title=File:User_hub.png&filetimestamp=20190221145008&)
[User documentation](/User_hub "User hub")

  * **[Getting started](/Getting_started "Getting started")**
  * **Installation:** [Download](/Download "Download"), [Windows](/Installing_on_Windows "Installing on Windows"), [Linux](/Installing_on_Linux "Installing on Linux"), [Mac](/Installing_on_Mac "Installing on Mac"), [Additional components](/Installing_additional_components "Installing additional components"), [Docker](/Compile_on_Docker "Compile on Docker"), [AppImage](/AppImage "AppImage"), [Ubuntu Snap](/Ubuntu_Snap "Ubuntu Snap")
  * **Basics:** [About FreeCAD](/About_FreeCAD "About FreeCAD"), [Interface](/Interface "Interface"), [Mouse navigation](/Mouse_navigation "Mouse navigation"), [Selection methods](/Selection_methods "Selection methods"), [Object name](/Object_name "Object name"), [Preferences](/Preferences_Editor "Preferences Editor"), [Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"), [Document structure](/Document_structure "Document structure"), [Properties](/Property "Property"), [Help FreeCAD](/Help_FreeCAD "Help FreeCAD"), [Donate](/Donate "Donate")

* * *

  * **Help:** [Tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials"), [Video tutorials](/Video_tutorials "Video tutorials")
  * **[Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"):** [Std Base](/Std_Base "Std Base"), [Assembly](/Assembly_Workbench "Assembly Workbench"), [BIM](/BIM_Workbench "BIM Workbench"), [CAM](/CAM_Workbench "CAM Workbench"), Draft, [FEM](/FEM_Workbench "FEM Workbench"), [Inspection](/Inspection_Workbench "Inspection Workbench"), [Material](/Material_Workbench "Material Workbench"), [Mesh](/Mesh_Workbench "Mesh Workbench"), [OpenSCAD](/OpenSCAD_Workbench "OpenSCAD Workbench"), [Part](/Part_Workbench "Part Workbench"), [PartDesign](/PartDesign_Workbench "PartDesign Workbench"), [Points](/Points_Workbench "Points Workbench"), [Reverse Engineering](/Reverse_Engineering_Workbench "Reverse Engineering Workbench"), [Robot](/Robot_Workbench "Robot Workbench"), [Sketcher](/Sketcher_Workbench "Sketcher Workbench"), [Spreadsheet](/Spreadsheet_Workbench "Spreadsheet Workbench"), [Surface](/Surface_Workbench "Surface Workbench"), [TechDraw](/TechDraw_Workbench "TechDraw Workbench"), [Test Framework](/Testing "Testing")

* * *

  * **[Addons](/Addon "Addon"):** [Addon Manager](/Std_AddonMgr "Std AddonMgr"), [External workbenches](/External_workbenches "External workbenches"), [Scripting and macros](/Scripting_and_macros "Scripting and macros")

* * *

  * **Hubs:** [User hub](/User_hub "User hub"), [Power users hub](/Power_users_hub "Power users hub"), [Developer hub](/Developer_hub "Developer hub")

