---
url: https://wiki.freecad.org/Frequently_asked_questions
title: Frequently asked questions
scraped_at: 2025-09-08 16:43:35
---

Toggle the table of contents

## Contents

move to sidebar hide

  * Beginning
  * 1 Installation Toggle Installation subsection
    * 1.1 What is the easiest way to install FreeCAD on my system?
    * 1.2 What are the prerequisites for running FreeCAD?
      * 1.2.1 Multithreading
    * 1.3 What if I want to compile FreeCAD myself?
    * 1.4 FreeCAD tells me some module or application is missing
  * 2 Troubleshooting Toggle Troubleshooting subsection
    * 2.1 Known OS-specific issues
    * 2.2 FreeCAD doesn't start at all
    * 2.3 FreeCAD starts normally, but not all icons are displayed, some of them are replaced by a black 'X'
    * 2.4 I have display problems, the 3D view doesn't behave correctly, there is garbage when I move/rotate the view, etc.
    * 2.5 FreeCAD crashes on startup
      * 2.5.1 OpenGL drivers are not installed, or not working properly
      * 2.5.2 Some library, needed by FreeCAD, is not present on your system, or wasn't found by FreeCAD
    * 2.6 FreeCAD freezes after startup
    * 2.7 FreeCAD crashes on creating a new document or opening a file
    * 2.8 FreeCAD crashes after Edit → Alignment
    * 2.9 I cannot change numeric values in FreeCAD's properties panels
    * 2.10 FreeCAD was running normally, and suddenly it doesn't start anymore
  * 3 Using FreeCAD Toggle Using FreeCAD subsection
    * 3.1 Is FreeCAD really free? Even for commercial use?
    * 3.2 How do I rotate the 3D view?
    * 3.3 What can I do with FreeCAD? Where do I start?
    * 3.4 Is there documentation for newcomers? How can I learn to use FreeCAD?
    * 3.5 I want to import/export data in format XYZ to/from FreeCAD. How do I do that?
    * 3.6 Where can I find workarounds for features that FreeCAD currently does not support?
  * 4 Working with Part geometry Toggle Working with Part geometry subsection
    * 4.1 How do I extrude stuff into solids? I don't get the right result
    * 4.2 My boolean operations fail, or give weird results
    * 4.3 When I export (or view) my model, the holes are filled in
    * 4.4 My parametric objects break when I modify their base sketches
  * 5 Contributing to FreeCAD Toggle Contributing to FreeCAD subsection
    * 5.1 FreeCAD is such a great program! How can I help?
    * 5.2 How can I get edit permission on the wiki?
    * 5.3 Does FreeCAD participate in Google Summer of Code?
    * 5.4 I want to start translating the wiki in my own language. What do I do?
    * 5.5 Can I buy swag?
  * 6 Licensing, copying and reuse Toggle Licensing, copying and reuse subsection
    * 6.1 Do I have to pay something to use FreeCAD?
    * 6.2 Can I reuse any part of the FreeCAD artwork or pieces of the website?
    * 6.3 Can I reuse pieces of FreeCAD in another application?

# Frequently asked questions

  * [Page](/Frequently_asked_questions "View the content page \[ctrl-option-c\]")
  * [Discussion](/index.php?title=Talk:Frequently_asked_questions&action=edit&redlink=1 "Discussion about the content page \(page does not exist\) \[ctrl-option-t\]")

English

  * [Read](/Frequently_asked_questions)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=Frequently_asked_questions&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=Frequently_asked_questions&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [Edit on GitHub](https://github.com/Reqrefusion/FreeCAD-Documentation-Project/blob/main/wiki/Frequently_asked_questions.wikitext "Edit this page on GitHub")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=Frequently_asked_questions&action=history "Past revisions of this page \[ctrl-option-h\]")

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * [Read](/Frequently_asked_questions)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=Frequently_asked_questions&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=Frequently_asked_questions&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=Frequently_asked_questions&action=history)

General

  * [What links here](/Special:WhatLinksHere/Frequently_asked_questions "A list of all wiki pages that link here \[ctrl-option-j\]")
  * [Related changes](/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Frequently_asked_questions "Recent changes in pages linked from this page \[ctrl-option-k\]")
  * [Special pages](/Special:SpecialPages "A list of all special pages \[ctrl-option-q\]")
  * [Permanent link](https://wiki.freecad.org/index.php?title=Frequently_asked_questions&oldid=1605012 "Permanent link to this revision of this page")
  * [Page information](/index.php?title=Frequently_asked_questions&action=info "More information about this page")
  * Expand all

Print/export

  * [Download as PDF](/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=Frequently_asked_questions&action=show-download-screen)
  * [Printable version](javascript:print\(\); "Printable version of this page \[ctrl-option-p\]")

From FreeCAD Documentation

[Translate this page](/Special:Translate?group=page-
Frequently+asked+questions&action=page&filter=&language=en)This is the
approved revision of this page, as well as being the most recent.

Other languages:

  * [](/index.php?title=Special:Translate&group=page-Frequently+asked+questions&language=&task=view "Start translation for this language")
  * [Deutsch](/Frequently_asked_questions/de "Häufig gestellte Fragen \(92% translated\)")
  * English
  * [español](/Frequently_asked_questions/es "PREGUNTAS FRECUENTES \(50% translated\)")
  * [français](/Frequently_asked_questions/fr "Foire aux questions \(100% translated\)")
  * [hrvatski](/Frequently_asked_questions/hr "Frequently asked questions/hr \(1% translated\)")
  * [italiano](/Frequently_asked_questions/it "Domande frequenti \(84% translated\)")
  * [polski](/Frequently_asked_questions/pl "Najczęściej zadawane pytania \(100% translated\)")
  * [português do Brasil](/Frequently_asked_questions/pt-br "Perguntas mais freqüentes \(64% translated\)")
  * [русский](/Frequently_asked_questions/ru "Часто задаваемые вопросы \(42% translated\)")
  * [日本語](/Frequently_asked_questions/ja "FAQ \(1% translated\)")
  * [한국어](/Frequently_asked_questions/ko "자주하는 질문 \(41% translated\)")

![](/images/6/6f/Arrow-left.svg) [Import Export](/Import_Export "Import
Export")

[Tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials") ![](/images/a/af/Arrow-right.svg)

[Index](/Online_Help_Toc "Online Help Toc")
![](/images/7/76/Online_Help_Toc.svg)

This page attempts to answer the most common questions asked on the FreeCAD
forums. If you have a problem or question regarding FreeCAD, check below
first. Then, if you cannot find an answer for your specific question, head to
the [FreeCAD forum](https://forum.freecad.org/viewforum.php?f=3)!

## Installation

### What is the easiest way to install FreeCAD on my system?

If you are on Windows or macOS, the simplest way is to head to the
[Download](/Download "Download") page, where you'll find several ready-to-
install packages. If you are on Debian, Fedora or Ubuntu and some other
distributions, FreeCAD is already included in the standard software
repositories and you can simply install it with the software manager. On
Ubuntu, the FreeCAD team also maintains its own [PPA
repositories](/Installing_on_Linux#Stable_PPA_version "Installing on Linux").
For further details about installation, refer to the installing page for your
operating system ([Windows](/Installing_on_Windows "Installing on Windows"),
[Linux](/Installing_on_Linux "Installing on Linux") or
[Mac](/Installing_on_Mac "Installing on Mac")).

### What are the prerequisites for running FreeCAD?

In contrast to most 3D CAD software, FreeCAD can run smoothly on the most
modest computers - it's been known to run on Pentium IV and Intel Core2 Solo
CPUs. If your computer is running a current operating system, chances are
FreeCAD will run. The only prerequisite is that your graphics card or chipset
must support [OpenGL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenGL), preferably no
older than v2.0. In case of problems, refer to the Troubleshooting section of
this FAQ.

#### Multithreading

FreeCAD's underlying geometric modeling kernel, the [OpenCASCADE
Technology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_Cascade_Technology) (OCCT)
third-party library, [has only partial multi-threading support at this
time](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=4&t=17501&p=173095&hilit=Multithread#p173095).
See the [multithreading](/Multithreading "Multithreading") page for more
details.

### What if I want to compile FreeCAD myself?

The source code of FreeCAD is always available in the project source code
repository. Compiling FreeCAD yourself allows you to use the most recent
features being developed, but requires a bit of computer knowledge, although
the procedure is fairly simple. Access to the source code is explained
[here](/Compile_on_Linux#Getting_the_source "Compile on Linux"), and we have
detailed instructions for compiling on [Windows](/Compile_on_Windows "Compile
on Windows"), [Linux](/Compile_on_Linux "Compile on Linux") and
[macOS](/Compile_on_MacOS "Compile on MacOS").

### FreeCAD tells me some module or application is missing

FreeCAD depends on a lot of things to offer all its functionality. All the
main required components are usually bundled within your FreeCAD installation
or provided by your package manager, so normally you have nothing to worry
about. If you installed FreeCAD from unofficial sources, however, or compiled
FreeCAD yourself, some piece might be missing, which is not critical to
FreeCAD itself, but might cause some functionality to be unavailable. Some
specific file formats such as Collada or DWG also require extra components,
which cannot be bundled into FreeCAD, and must be installed by yourself
separately.

All those components and the appropriate way to install them are listed on the
[Extra python modules](/Extra_python_modules "Extra python modules") page.

## Troubleshooting

### Known OS-specific issues

Find known OS-specific issues in this [forum
thread](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=30573)

### FreeCAD doesn't start at all

There might be a lot of reasons for that, the most likely is that some library
is missing. Try starting FreeCAD from a terminal (type freecad at a terminal
prompt, FreeCAD on some systems) to see if some error message appears. Also,
read the rest of this FAQ as it can give you more clues to detect the cause of
the problem. If nothing helps, tell about it on the
[forum](https://forum.freecad.org), there will surely be someone who can help.

On some older Windows XP systems you may get an error message like this: _The
application can't start, because the side-by-side configuration is wrong. The
reinstallation of the application may solve the problem._ The reason for this
problem is that on your system either the CRT runtime libraries are missing or
the version installed is too old because FreeCAD was linked against a newer
version. In this case you have to install the _Microsoft Visual C++
Redistributable Package_ which you'll find at Microsoft. See also the
corresponding [forum
message](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=1298&p=9961).

### FreeCAD starts normally, but not all icons are displayed, some of them are
replaced by a black 'X'

Some parts of FreeCAD depend on an external Python module called Pivy. On
Windows, pivy is included in the FreeCAD installation. On Debian/Ubuntu
systems, the python-pivy package is part of standard software repositories. On
other systems, at the moment, you might have to compile pivy yourself. Note
that although some tools are not available without pivy, the rest of FreeCAD
works normally.

### I have display problems, the 3D view doesn't behave correctly, there is
garbage when I move/rotate the view, etc.

FreeCAD depends on OpenGL for displaying 3D contents, and therefore requires a
working OpenGL environment. On some systems, OpenGL is not activated by
default, and you might need to install or upgrade your graphics drivers. This
problems happens most often on Linux systems or on virtual systems. If you are
on a Linux-based system, try the following steps:

  * verify that your computer has a 3D-capable graphics board
  * type glxinfo in a terminal window, and check in the output that Direct Rendering is set to "yes", and that the OpenGL vendor/renderer/version matches your graphics card.
  * install other OpenGL-based software ([Blender](http://www.blender.org), for example) and check if it runs and displays correctly.

### FreeCAD crashes on startup

A crash might indicate a more serious bug, or some problem in your
configuration. Most startup crashes occur because of one of the two following
reasons:

#### OpenGL drivers are not installed, or not working properly

This is a very common cause of the problem. The symptoms are simply that
FreeCAD crashes at startup, or whenever you open a 3D view (for example by
creating a new document). Try to find out what your graphic chip is, then find
out if it supports [OpenGL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenGL) (most recent
chips do), then find the correct driver and install it. A good way to
doublecheck if OpenGL is available is to try to run another OpenGL application
such as [blender](http://www.blender.org).

And as a general tip to get some more information about crashes with FreeCAD
you can start it with the program parameter \--write-log. This will create the
file FreeCAD.log in $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/FreeCAD (0.20 and above) or
$HOME/.FreeCAD (0.19 and below) on Linux, or $HOME/Library/Preferences/FreeCAD
on macOS, or %APPDATA%/FreeCAD on Windows systems.

In some rare cases you may have a graphic driver installed that doesn't fit to
your graphic card. We had a case where the user's laptop had an Intel on-board
graphic but some ATI drivers were installed. Refer to forum thread in German
[FreeCAD startet
nicht](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=13&t=5160&start=10#p41042).
After removing the files and re-installing the correct driver FreeCAD started
to work.

#### Some library, needed by FreeCAD, is not present on your system, or wasn't
found by FreeCAD

There can be two paths to this problem: either some library is simply missing,
therefore FreeCAD will refuse to start, or the library is there, but it is an
older version than the one FreeCAD expects, so a crash will occur when FreeCAD
attempts to use a missing feature from that library. A common example is when
you have Qt3 and Qt4 installed on your system, FreeCAD might detect Qt4 but if
your Qt installation is not properly configured, some pieces of Qt3 might
still be used, provoking crashes.

Please review the installing procedure ([Windows](/Installing_on_Windows
"Installing on Windows"), [Linux](/Installing_on_Linux "Installing on Linux")
or [Mac](/Installing_on_Mac "Installing on Mac")), make sure you installed all
the required libraries (on most Linux systems this is done automatically), and
check what is the minimum version number for each of the components.

If everything seems correct, describe the problem on the
[forum](https://forum.freecad.org) or [submit a
bug](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues). If you are on a Linux system,
it is easy to do a debug backtrace, which provides very useful information
about the crash to the developers:

  * in a terminal, type: gdb freecad (assuming package gdb is installed)
  * inside gdb, type run
  * after the crash, type bt to get the backtrace, that you can include in your bug report.

### FreeCAD freezes after startup

When starting FreeCAD the GUI appears almost immediately but the GUI is frozen
and the cpu is about 99%. This can happen on the KDE desktop when using the
Oxygen theme. That's a bug in the Oxygen theme and choosing another theme
should fix this issue.

### FreeCAD crashes on creating a new document or opening a file

If FreeCAD crashes when it creates a new 3D view, try launching FreeCAD from a
terminal. If a message error appears when the crash occurs, mentioning
Assertion Failed, and a component name beginning with "So" (SoBase,
SoFieldContainer, etc.), the chances are very high, especially if you are on
Linux, that FreeCAD is trying to use two different versions of the Coin
library, which causes the crash. To verify if that is indeed the problem, try
the following:

  * Locate the FreeCAD executable (usually in /usr/lib/FreeCAD/bin)
  * Run the command ldd FreeCAD from a terminal
  * Note down the version of the libCoin.so library that FreeCAD is using (for example libCoin.so.60)
  * Locate the libSoQt.so library (usually in /usr/lib)
  * run ldd libSoQt.so and check if it links to the same Coin version as FreeCAD

If there is any difference, either FreeCAD or SoQt must be recompiled (better
to recompile the one that uses the oldest Coin version). The normal behavior
is to try to contact the people responsible for packaging either SoQt or
FreeCAD and kindly ask them to consider recompiling. If you want to undertake
that step for yourself, and it is not possible to recompile SoQt because it
breaks other applications on your system, you can force FreeCAD to compile
with the required Coin version with ./configure --with-coin=DIR. But you have
to make sure that the correct development package of this Coin version is
installed.

### FreeCAD crashes after Edit → Alignment

A segmentation fault happens at vbo_save_playback_vertex_list(). This means
that the implementation of VBO in the graphic driver is bad. In order to avoid
caching OpenGL calls you can try to set the environment variable
IV_SEPARATOR_MAX_CACHES=0 and restart FreeCAD.

### I cannot change numeric values in FreeCAD's properties panels

[![language options](/images/thumb/c/c0/Jj62l.png/480px-
Jj62l.png)](/index.php?title=File:Jj62l.png&filetimestamp=20130423090237&
"language options")language options

You most likely have bad windows regional settings set-up. Please check if you
have the same symbol for decimal separator and digit grouping symbol in your
regional settings. If you do, [adapt your system
settings](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=4&t=2655&p=20046#p20041)
to use different characters for the digit grouping symbol and decimal
separator. Note that it is not mandatory to have dot as decimal separator. It
is mandatory to use different symbols in these two settings.

### FreeCAD was running normally, and suddenly it doesn't start anymore

This can also happen if you had an older version of FreeCAD installed, and you
upgraded to a newer version. In that process, the configuration files of
FreeCAD might have been corrupted for some reason, and now FreeCAD cannot read
them anymore, and fails to start. The solution is simply to delete these
configuration files, so FreeCAD will recreate them on first run.

  * On Windows: Open the file explorer, and write %APPDATA%\FreeCAD as the file path. Once there, delete the files user.cfg and system.cfg
  * On Linux: Navigate to /home/USERNAME/.local/share/FreeCAD (0.20 and above) or /home/USERNAME/.FreeCAD (0.19 and below) and delete the files user.cfg and system.cfg
  * On Mac: Navigate to /Users/USERNAME/Library/Preferences/FreeCAD and delete the files user.cfg and system.cfg

FreeCAD should now start again normally with all its settings reset.

  
There is a [Macro findConfigFiles](/Macro_findConfigFiles "Macro
findConfigFiles") available to help in locating your configuration files. It
can be installed using the Addon Manager in the Tools menu. **Tools → Addon
Manager → Macros → findConfigFiles**. The macro will find your config file
folder, copy it to the clipboard, and (attempt to) open that location with
your default file browser. It makes no changes to your files or settings.

## Using FreeCAD

### Is FreeCAD really free? Even for commercial use?

FreeCAD is [open-source software](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-
source_software), and is free not only to use, for yourself or for doing
commercial work, but also to distribute, modify, or even use in a closed-
source application. To summarize, you are free to do (almost) anything you
want with it. See the [License](/License "License") page for more details.

### How do I rotate the 3D view?

  * [![From the right mouse button](/images/thumb/7/73/Style_of_navigation.png/165px-Style_of_navigation.png)](/index.php?title=File:Style_of_navigation.png&filetimestamp=20240425200410& "From the right mouse button")

From the right mouse button

  * [![From the menu Edit → Preferences →](/images/thumb/1/10/Style_of_navigation_menu.png/300px-Style_of_navigation_menu.png)](/index.php?title=File:Style_of_navigation_menu.png&filetimestamp=20240425201620& "From the menu Edit → Preferences →")

From the menu **Edit → Preferences →**

FreeCAD has several different [navigation modes](/Mouse_navigation "Mouse
navigation") available, that can be set in the preferences settings dialog or
changed by right-clicking in the 3D view. For full details about the modes,
see the [Mouse navigation](/Mouse_navigation "Mouse navigation") page.

### What can I do with FreeCAD? Where do I start?

Head to the [Getting started](/Getting_started "Getting started") page for a
quick description of the tools you can use. There is also a new
[Tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials") section containing a few resources. The
[User hub](/User_hub "User hub") section contains more detailed information
about the different workbenches of FreeCAD. Note that since FreeCAD is
relatively new, its user interface is still very bare and doesn't feature many
tools. But much more advanced functionality is already available to you from
[Python scripting](/Power_users_hub "Power users hub").

### Is there documentation for newcomers? How can I learn to use FreeCAD?

There is a lot of documentation spread in different places, both on and
outside the FreeCAD website. You might want to start with the [Getting
started](/Getting_started "Getting started") page. The [Tutorials](/Tutorials
"Tutorials") section contains many specialized tutorial pages to help you
getting started with the different workbenches. The
[Manual:Introduction](/Manual:Introduction "Manual:Introduction") is a
general, complete user-oriented guide to FreeCAD. The [User hub](/User_hub
"User hub") section of this wiki lists all pages aimed at end users. On
external sites like
[Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=freecad), you will also
find a load of video tutorials created by users. And, last but not least, the
[forum](https://forum.freecad.org) contains a lot of replies to questions
asked by other newcomers.

### I want to import/export data in format XYZ to/from FreeCAD. How do I do
that?

Please refer to the [FreeCAD Howto Import Export](/FreeCAD_Howto_Import_Export
"FreeCAD Howto Import Export") page. Maybe your questions are already answered
there.

### Where can I find workarounds for features that FreeCAD currently does not
support?

Please refer to the [Workarounds](/Workarounds "Workarounds") page.

## Working with Part geometry

### How do I extrude stuff into solids? I don't get the right result

The theory is simple: Lines (or wires), when extruded, form faces. Faces, when
extruded, form solids.

If you extrude something and the result is not a solid, then the something was
not a face. If you have lines and you want to extrude a solid from them, you
must first select lines that form a closed perimeter (select several objects
by pressing Ctrl), join them into a wire ([Draft Upgrade](/Draft_Upgrade
"Draft Upgrade") tool), then make a face from that wire
([![](/images/b/ba/Draft_Upgrade.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Draft_Upgrade.svg&filetimestamp=20210319102935&)
[Draft Upgrade](/Draft_Upgrade "Draft Upgrade") tool again). There you are, if
all went well you can now extrude it to a solid.

Now, there can be many little twists that make you obtain the wrong result.
The best way to make sure is to check what's inside the object you are
extruding. Objects contents can be easily explored with python. Assuming for
example you have an object called "Wire", you could type this into the Python
console:

    
    
    obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.Wire
    shp = obj.Shape
    print shp.Faces
    print shp.Wires
    if shp.Wires:
        for w in shp.Wires:
            print w.isClosed()
    

The above code retrieves the shape from an object, shows the faces and wires
your object has (if any), and, if there are wires, prints if those wires are
closed. If you don't have any face, you won't get a solid. If there is no
closed wire, it won't become a face. If you are interested, there is more info
about what you can check with Python on the [part
scripting](/Topological_data_scripting "Topological data scripting") page. If
you cannot join several lines into a wire, the most probable cause is that
their endpoints don't meet, there must be small gaps between (some of) them.
There, I'm afraid, my experience tells me the quickest way would be to redraw
a wire on top of them.

### My boolean operations fail, or give weird results

Like all solid modeling kernels, the [Open
CASCADE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_CASCADE_Technology) geometric
modeling kernel used in FreeCAD for Part geometry, although probably the best
open-source geometry kernel available, has flaws and limitations. Boolean
operations (fusion, subtraction, intersection) are complicated operations, and
often give strange results. This is a current limitation we have no way to
solve at once, so your best path is to try obtaining the desired result by
modeling another way. For example, problems with primitives such as cylinder
can often be solved by using an extruded circle instead. Coplanar surfaces
between parts can cause trouble, as well as surface tangency. As a general
rule, if a shape doesn't work, try remodeling it a different way. In 99% of
the cases at the end you will manage to obtain the result you want.

To understand boolean operations better, see these articles:

  * <https://wiki.mcneel.com/rhino/booleanfaq>
  * <https://dev.opencascade.org/doc/overview/html/specification__boolean_operations.html#autotoc_md293>

### When I export (or view) my model, the holes are filled in

Don't use Ctrl \+ A (Select All) to export everything from the hierarchy tree.
If the model is of one single item, try selecting only the newest item
(usually the last one) in the hierarchy tree.

As we create a model in the [PartDesign Workbench](/PartDesign_Workbench
"PartDesign Workbench"), each feature takes the shape of the last one and adds
or removes something, creating linear dependencies from feature to feature as
the model is created. Hence a "Cut" feature is not only the cut hole itself,
but the whole part with the cut. This is why the user usually should only have
the newest item (feature) in the model tree visible, because otherwise the
phases of the model overlay each other, and holes are filled in by the earlier
model features.

To toggle visibility of an object on or off, select it in the hierarchy tree
and press spacebar on your keyboard. Usually everything but the last item in
the hierarchy tree should be greyed out and therefore not visible in the [3D
view](/3D_view "3D view").

### My parametric objects break when I modify their base sketches

You have met the (in)famous [Topological Naming Problem
(TNP)](/Topological_naming_problem "Topological naming problem"). This may
still be a major issue in FreeCAD for newcomers. It can be present all over
FreeCAD, but is more prominent when using [sketches](/Sketcher_Workbench
"Sketcher Workbench"). The explanation is simple: When recalculating a sketch,
the geometric entities (edges, faces...) are rebuilt in a different order,
depending on the constraints precedence. They then receive a different name
(Edge1, Edge2, Face1, Face2...). Most subsequent operations depend on these
names to identify which subcomponent they work on. Therefore, when the sketch
is rebuilt, features that are based on such subcomponents might suddenly get
their base geometry changed and give a wrong result.

[introduced in 1.0](/Release_notes_1.0 "Release notes 1.0"): The TNP
mitigation code is implemented but it doesn't eliminate the problem entirely
and the users should still follow the good practices listed below:

  * Know that sketches are highly sensitive to the problem. Referencing a specific edge of a sketch, or a face of an object built on a sketch, such as a [PartDesign Pad](/PartDesign_Pad "PartDesign Pad"), is dangerous, unless you are pretty confident that these sketches will not change over time or the sketch is very simple. A Pad built on a simple rectangular sketch, for example, will likely be safe as it will generate only one face, so there is no order problem.
  * Prefer other kinds of objects such as [Part](/Part_Workbench "Part Workbench") or [Draft](/Draft_Workbench "Draft Workbench") when possible. These objects are always built the same way, and therefore their geometric components usually follow the same order each time they are rebuilt. They are much less susceptible to toponaming problems.
  * To attach further objects onto the faces of sketch-based geometry, prefer using [Datum geometry](/PartDesign_Plane "PartDesign Plane"). These invisible "helper objects" don't depend on sketch geometry, and therefore stay stable over time.

## Contributing to FreeCAD

### FreeCAD is such a great program! How can I help?

There are a lot of different ways to help, even if you are not a programmer.
Here are a couple of things you can do:

  * Give some feedback to the FreeCAD developers: It is always useful to know what people think, what they found good, what they miss, etc. Drop a note on the [forum](https://forum.freecad.org) giving your opinion or make a request in our [Issues section](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues)!
  * Help with writing documentation: The documentation we have here on this site is sometimes very limited. If you discovered something that is not well documented, add your knowledge there!
  * Help others newcomers: Hang around the forum, and help new people to solve basic questions, like how do I install, how do I add a cube, etc.
  * [Translate the documentation](/Help_FreeCAD#Translate_the_documentation "Help FreeCAD") into your own language
  * [Translate FreeCAD](/Help_FreeCAD#Translate_FreeCAD "Help FreeCAD") into your own language
  * Write [Tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials"), or record video tutorials: Tutorials are a very easy way for newcomers to learn a new software. If you did some nice stuff, why not show other people how to do it?
  * Contribute with assets and examples: We are still missing good example files in FreeCAD. If you created something good, share it with us!
  * [Submit bugs](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues): It is very important to have all possible bugs fixed. If you find one, report it as clearly as possible, so we can understand exactly what's happening.
  * Try to do some Python coding: You never programmed before but you want to try? Python is easy. Read our [introduction to Python](/Introduction_to_Python "Introduction to Python"), but beware, you might get addicted quickly!
  * See the [Help FreeCAD](/Help_FreeCAD "Help FreeCAD") page for more details on how to contribute.

### How can I get edit permission on the wiki?

See the [Work on the documentation](/Help_FreeCAD#Work_on_the_documentation
"Help FreeCAD") page paragraph for more details on how to contribute.

### Does FreeCAD participate in Google Summer of Code?

Yes. Beginning in 2016, FreeCAD participates in Google Summer of Code. See
[Google Summer of Code 2020](/Google_Summer_of_Code_2020 "Google Summer of
Code 2020") for information on past editions, and [Google Summer Of Code
2016](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=13838) in the forum for
the original announcement.

### I want to start translating the wiki in my own language. What do I do?

This wiki is hosting a lot of contents. The most up-to-date and interesting
material is gathered in the [manual](/Online_Help_Toc "Online Help Toc").

See the [Translate the documentation](/Help_FreeCAD#Work_on_the_documentation
"Help FreeCAD") page paragraph for more details on how to translate the wiki.

### Can I buy swag?

FreeCAD doesn't offer swag you can order to support the project. But you can
create your own. See our [Swag](/Swag "Swag") page for instructions.

## Licensing, copying and reuse

### Do I have to pay something to use FreeCAD?

No. FreeCAD is totally free to use, to download, to redistribute, or to
modify. It is [open-source
software](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_source), published under the
terms of the [GNU Lesser General Public License
2.1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_Lesser_General_Public_License), which
guarantees you those freedoms and, even more important, guarantees you that
these freedoms will never be taken from you.

### Can I reuse any part of the FreeCAD artwork or pieces of the website?

Sure. All the artwork (icons, banners, etc.) of FreeCAD are licensed LGPL,
same as the FreeCAD code. Help yourself on the [Artwork](/Artwork "Artwork")
page. The website is a standard MediaWiki site, all graphic elements can
freely be reused, and if you are curious about how to tweak the MediaWiki
software like we did, look for the special Common css and js pages.

### Can I reuse pieces of FreeCAD in another application?

Yes, you can use the core parts of FreeCAD in other applications as long as
you comply with the terms of the LGPL. Third party libraries, [external
workbenches](/External_workbenches "External workbenches"), and
[macros](/Macros "Macros") may be subject to their own license terms, so
please consult with their authors. More details on the [License](/License
"License") page.

  

![](/images/6/6f/Arrow-left.svg) [Import Export](/Import_Export "Import
Export")

[Tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials") ![](/images/a/af/Arrow-right.svg)

[Index](/Online_Help_Toc "Online Help Toc")
![](/images/7/76/Online_Help_Toc.svg)

Expand[![](/images/thumb/9/94/User_hub.png/24px-
User_hub.png)](/index.php?title=File:User_hub.png&filetimestamp=20190221145008&)
[User documentation](/User_hub "User hub")

  * **[Getting started](/Getting_started "Getting started")**
  * **Installation:** [Download](/Download "Download"), [Windows](/Installing_on_Windows "Installing on Windows"), [Linux](/Installing_on_Linux "Installing on Linux"), [Mac](/Installing_on_Mac "Installing on Mac"), [Additional components](/Installing_additional_components "Installing additional components"), [Docker](/Compile_on_Docker "Compile on Docker"), [AppImage](/AppImage "AppImage"), [Ubuntu Snap](/Ubuntu_Snap "Ubuntu Snap")
  * **Basics:** [About FreeCAD](/About_FreeCAD "About FreeCAD"), [Interface](/Interface "Interface"), [Mouse navigation](/Mouse_navigation "Mouse navigation"), [Selection methods](/Selection_methods "Selection methods"), [Object name](/Object_name "Object name"), [Preferences](/Preferences_Editor "Preferences Editor"), [Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"), [Document structure](/Document_structure "Document structure"), [Properties](/Property "Property"), [Help FreeCAD](/Help_FreeCAD "Help FreeCAD"), [Donate](/Donate "Donate")

* * *

  * **Help:** [Tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials"), [Video tutorials](/Video_tutorials "Video tutorials")
  * **[Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"):** [Std Base](/Std_Base "Std Base"), [Assembly](/Assembly_Workbench "Assembly Workbench"), [BIM](/BIM_Workbench "BIM Workbench"), [CAM](/CAM_Workbench "CAM Workbench"), [Draft](/Draft_Workbench "Draft Workbench"), [FEM](/FEM_Workbench "FEM Workbench"), [Inspection](/Inspection_Workbench "Inspection Workbench"), [Material](/Material_Workbench "Material Workbench"), [Mesh](/Mesh_Workbench "Mesh Workbench"), [OpenSCAD](/OpenSCAD_Workbench "OpenSCAD Workbench"), [Part](/Part_Workbench "Part Workbench"), [PartDesign](/PartDesign_Workbench "PartDesign Workbench"), [Points](/Points_Workbench "Points Workbench"), [Reverse Engineering](/Reverse_Engineering_Workbench "Reverse Engineering Workbench"), [Robot](/Robot_Workbench "Robot Workbench"), [Sketcher](/Sketcher_Workbench "Sketcher Workbench"), [Spreadsheet](/Spreadsheet_Workbench "Spreadsheet Workbench"), [Surface](/Surface_Workbench "Surface Workbench"), [TechDraw](/TechDraw_Workbench "TechDraw Workbench"), [Test Framework](/Testing "Testing")

* * *

  * **[Addons](/Addon "Addon"):** [Addon Manager](/Std_AddonMgr "Std AddonMgr"), [External workbenches](/External_workbenches "External workbenches"), [Scripting and macros](/Scripting_and_macros "Scripting and macros")

* * *

  * **Hubs:** [User hub](/User_hub "User hub"), [Power users hub](/Power_users_hub "Power users hub"), [Developer hub](/Developer_hub "Developer hub")

