---
url: https://wiki.freecad.org/Getting_started
title: Getting started
scraped_at: 2025-09-08 16:43:42
---

Toggle the table of contents

## Contents

move to sidebar hide

  * Beginning
  * 1 Foreword
  * 2 Installing
  * 3 Exploring the interface
  * 4 Navigating in the 3D space
  * 5 First steps with FreeCAD
  * 6 Working with the PartDesign and Sketcher workbenches
  * 7 Working with the Draft and BIM workbenches
  * 8 Addons
  * 9 Scripting
  * 10 What's new

# Getting started

  * [Page](/Getting_started "View the content page \[ctrl-option-c\]")
  * [Discussion](/index.php?title=Talk:Getting_started&action=edit&redlink=1 "Discussion about the content page \(page does not exist\) \[ctrl-option-t\]")

English

  * [Read](/Getting_started)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=Getting_started&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=Getting_started&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [Edit on GitHub](https://github.com/Reqrefusion/FreeCAD-Documentation-Project/blob/main/wiki/Getting_started.wikitext "Edit this page on GitHub")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=Getting_started&action=history "Past revisions of this page \[ctrl-option-h\]")

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * [Read](/Getting_started)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=Getting_started&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=Getting_started&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=Getting_started&action=history)

General

  * [What links here](/Special:WhatLinksHere/Getting_started "A list of all wiki pages that link here \[ctrl-option-j\]")
  * [Related changes](/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Getting_started "Recent changes in pages linked from this page \[ctrl-option-k\]")
  * [Special pages](/Special:SpecialPages "A list of all special pages \[ctrl-option-q\]")
  * [Permanent link](https://wiki.freecad.org/index.php?title=Getting_started&oldid=1605013 "Permanent link to this revision of this page")
  * [Page information](/index.php?title=Getting_started&action=info "More information about this page")
  * Expand all

Print/export

  * [Download as PDF](/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=Getting_started&action=show-download-screen)
  * [Printable version](javascript:print\(\); "Printable version of this page \[ctrl-option-p\]")

From FreeCAD Documentation

[Translate this page](/Special:Translate?group=page-
Getting+started&action=page&filter=&language=en)This is the approved revision
of this page, as well as being the most recent.

Other languages:

  * [](/index.php?title=Special:Translate&group=page-Getting+started&language=&task=view "Start translation for this language")
  * [Bahasa Indonesia](/Getting_started/id "Getting started \(10% translated\)")
  * [Deutsch](/Getting_started/de "Loslegen \(100% translated\)")
  * English
  * [Türkçe](/Getting_started/tr "Başlangıç \(26% translated\)")
  * [español](/Getting_started/es "Cómo empezar \(72% translated\)")
  * [français](/Getting_started/fr "Démarrer avec FreeCAD \(100% translated\)")
  * [hrvatski](/Getting_started/hr "Prvi koraci \(64% translated\)")
  * [italiano](/Getting_started/it "Per iniziare \(100% translated\)")
  * [polski](/Getting_started/pl "Jak zacząć \(100% translated\)")
  * [português](/Getting_started/pt "Por onde começar \(40% translated\)")
  * [português do Brasil](/Getting_started/pt-br "Começando a usar \(76% translated\)")
  * [română](/Getting_started/ro "Primii paşi \(26% translated\)")
  * [svenska](/Getting_started/sv "Getting started \(10% translated\)")
  * [čeština](/Getting_started/cs "Začínáme \(24% translated\)")
  * [български](/Getting_started/bg "Първи стъпки \(24% translated\)")
  * [русский](/Getting_started/ru "Начало работы \(94% translated\)")
  * [українська](/Getting_started/uk "Розпочати \(6% translated\)")
  * [中文](/Getting_started/zh "入门 \(46% translated\)")
  * [中文（中国大陆）](/Getting_started/zh-cn "入门 \(24% translated\)")
  * [中文（臺灣）](/Getting_started/zh-tw "開始使用 \(98% translated\)")
  * [日本語](/Getting_started/ja "はじめてみよう \(94% translated\)")
  * [한국어](/Getting_started/ko "시작하기 \(40% translated\)")

![](/images/6/6f/Arrow-left.svg) [Installing additional
components](/Installing_additional_components "Installing additional
components")

[Mouse navigation](/Mouse_navigation "Mouse navigation")
![](/images/a/af/Arrow-right.svg)

[Index](/Online_Help_Toc "Online Help Toc")
![](/images/7/76/Online_Help_Toc.svg)

## Foreword

FreeCAD is a 3D [parametric modeling application](/About_FreeCAD "About
FreeCAD"). It is primarily made for mechanical design, but also serves all
other uses where you need to model 3D objects with precision and control over
modeling history.

FreeCAD has been under development since 2002, and it offers a large list of
[features](/Feature_list "Feature list"). Capabilities are still missing but
it is powerful enough for hobbyist use, and small workshops. There is a fast-
growing community of enthusiastic users who participate in the [FreeCAD
forum](https://forum.freecad.org), and you can find [many
examples](https://forum.freecad.org/viewforum.php?f=24) of quality projects
developed with FreeCAD there.

Like all free software projects, FreeCAD depends on its community to grow,
gain features, and fix bugs. Don't forget this when using FreeCAD; if you like
it, you can [donate](/Donate "Donate") and [help FreeCAD](/Help_FreeCAD "Help
FreeCAD") in various ways, such as writing documentation and making
translations.

See also:

  * [Migrating to FreeCAD from Fusion360](/Migrating_to_FreeCAD_from_Fusion360 "Migrating to FreeCAD from Fusion360")
  * [Which workbench should I choose?](/Which_workbench_should_I_choose "Which workbench should I choose")
  * [Tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials")
  * [Video tutorials](/Video_tutorials "Video tutorials")

## Installing

First of all, download and install FreeCAD. See the [Download](/Download
"Download") page for information on current versions and updates, and the
installation instructions for you operating system
([Windows](/Installing_on_Windows "Installing on Windows"),
[Linux](/Installing_on_Linux "Installing on Linux") or
[macOS](/Installing_on_Mac "Installing on Mac")). FreeCAD is available from
the package managers of many Linux distributions. As FreeCAD is open-source,
you can also grab the source code and [compile](/Compiling "Compiling") it
yourself.

## Exploring the interface

[![](/images/d/d8/FreeCAD_interface_base_divisions.svg)](/index.php?title=File:FreeCAD_interface_base_divisions.svg&filetimestamp=20200314201207&)

The standard FreeCAD interface

_See a full explanation in[Interface](/Interface "Interface")._

    1\. The [main view area](/Main_view_area "Main view area"), which can contain different tabbed windows, principally the [3D view](/3D_view "3D view").
    2\. The [3D view](/3D_view "3D view"), showing the geometrical objects in the document.
    3\. The [tree view](/Tree_view "Tree view") (part of the [combo view](/Combo_view "Combo view")), showing the hierarchy and construction history of objects in the document; it can also display the [task panel](/Task_panel "Task panel") for active commands.
    4\. The [property editor](/Property_editor "Property editor") (part of the [combo view](/Combo_view "Combo view")), which allows viewing and modifying properties of the selected objects.
    5\. The [selection view](/Selection_view "Selection view"), which indicates the objects or sub-elements of objects (vertices, edges, faces) that are selected.
    6\. The [report view](/Report_view "Report view") (or output window), where messages, warnings and errors are shown.
    7\. The [Python console](/Python_console "Python console"), where all the commands executed are printed, and where you can enter [Python](/Python "Python") code.
    8\. The [status bar](/Status_bar "Status bar"), where some messages and tooltips appear.
    9\. The toolbar area, where the toolbars are docked.
    10\. The [workbench selector](/Std_Workbench "Std Workbench"), where you select the active [workbench](/Workbenches "Workbenches").
    11\. The [standard menu](/Standard_Menu "Standard Menu"), which holds basic operations of the program.

The main concept behind the FreeCAD interface is that it is separated into
[workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"). A workbench is a collection of
tools suited for a specific task, such as working with
[meshes](/Mesh_Workbench "Mesh Workbench"), or drawing [2D
objects](/Draft_Workbench "Draft Workbench"), or [constrained
sketches](/Sketcher_Workbench "Sketcher Workbench"). You can switch the
current workbench with the [workbench selector](/Std_Workbench "Std
Workbench"). You can [customize](/Interface_Customization "Interface
Customization") the tools included in each workbench, add tools from other
workbenches or even self-created tools, that we call [macros](/Macros
"Macros"). Widely used starting points are the [PartDesign
Workbench](/PartDesign_Workbench "PartDesign Workbench") and [Part
Workbench](/Part_Workbench "Part Workbench").

When you start FreeCAD for the first time, you are presented with the Start
page. Here is what it looks like for version 0.19:

[![](/images/thumb/c/c7/Start_center_0.19_screenshot.png/600px-
Start_center_0.19_screenshot.png)](/index.php?title=File:Start_center_0.19_screenshot.png&filetimestamp=20211107235537&)

The Start page allows you to quickly jump to one of the most common
workbenches, open one of the recent files, or see the latest news from the
FreeCAD world. You can change the default workbench in the
[preferences](/Preferences_Editor "Preferences Editor").

## Navigating in the 3D space

FreeCAD has several [navigation modes](/Mouse_navigation "Mouse navigation")
available, that change the way you use your mouse to interact with the objects
in the 3D view and the view itself. One of them is specifically made for
[touchpads](/Mouse_navigation#Touchpad_navigation "Mouse navigation"), where
the middle mouse button is not used. The default navigation mode is [CAD
navigation](/Mouse_navigation#CAD_navigation "Mouse navigation"). You can
quickly change the current navigation mode by using the
[![](/images/d/d8/NavigationCAD_dark.svg)](/index.php?title=File:NavigationCAD_dark.svg&filetimestamp=20220305200617&)
button in the [Status bar](/Status_bar "Status bar") or by right-clicking an
empty area of the [3D view](/3D_view "3D view").

You also have several view presets (top view, front view, etc) available in
the View menu, on the View toolbar, and by numeric shortcuts (1, 2, etc...).
By right-clicking on an object or on an empty area of the 3D view, you have
quick access to some common operations, such as setting a particular view, or
locating an object in the Tree view.

## First steps with FreeCAD

FreeCAD's focus is to allow you to make high-precision 3D models, to keep
tight control over those models (being able to go back into modelling history
and change parameters), and eventually to build those models (via 3D printing,
CNC machining or even construction worksite). It is therefore very different
from some other 3D applications made for other purposes, such as animation
film or gaming. Its learning curve can be steep, especially if this is your
first contact with 3D modeling. If you are stuck at some point, don't forget
that the friendly community of users on the [FreeCAD
forum](https://forum.freecad.org) might be able to get you out in no time.

The workbench you will start using in FreeCAD depends on the type of job you
need to do: If you are going to work on mechanical models, or more generally
any small-scale objects, you'll probably want to try the [PartDesign
Workbench](/PartDesign_Workbench "PartDesign Workbench"). If you will work in
2D, then switch to the [Draft Workbench](/Draft_Workbench "Draft Workbench"),
or the [Sketcher Workbench](/Sketcher_Workbench "Sketcher Workbench") if you
need constraints. If you want to do BIM, launch the [BIM
Workbench](/BIM_Workbench "BIM Workbench"). And if you come from the OpenSCAD
world, try the [OpenSCAD Workbench](/OpenSCAD_Workbench "OpenSCAD Workbench").
There are also many community-developed [external
workbenches](/External_workbenches "External workbenches") available.

You can switch workbenches at any time, and also
[customize](/Interface_Customization "Interface Customization") your favorite
workbench to add tools from other workbenches.

## Working with the PartDesign and Sketcher workbenches

The [PartDesign Workbench](/PartDesign_Workbench "PartDesign Workbench") is
made to build complex objects, starting from simple shapes, and adding or
removing pieces (called "features"), until you get to your final object. All
the features you applied during the modelling process are stored in a separate
view called the [tree view](/Document_structure "Document structure"), which
also contains the other objects in your document. You can think of a
PartDesign object as a succession of operations, each one applied to the
result of the preceding one, forming one big chain. In the tree view, you see
your final object, but you can expand it and retrieve all preceding states,
and change any of their parameter, which automatically updates the final
object.

The PartDesign workbench makes heavy use of another workbench, the [Sketcher
Workbench](/Sketcher_Workbench "Sketcher Workbench"). The sketcher allows you
to draw 2D shapes, which are defined by applying Constraints to the 2D shape.
For example, you might draw a rectangle and set the size of a side by applying
a length constraint to one of the sides. That side then cannot be resized
anymore (unless the constraint is changed).

Those 2D shapes made with the sketcher are used a lot in the PartDesign
workbench, for example to create 3D volumes, or to draw areas on the faces of
your object that will then be hollowed from its main volume. This is a typical
PartDesign workflow:

  1. Create a new sketch
  2. Draw a closed shape (make sure all points are joined)
  3. Close the sketch
  4. Expand the sketch into a 3D solid by using the pad tool
  5. Select one face of the solid
  6. Create a second sketch (this time it will be drawn on the selected face)
  7. Draw a closed shape
  8. Close the sketch
  9. Create a pocket from the second sketch, on the first object

Which gives you an object like this:

[![](/images/thumb/5/53/Partdesign_example.jpg/600px-
Partdesign_example.jpg)](/index.php?title=File:Partdesign_example.jpg&filetimestamp=20130920012333&)

At any moment, you can select the original sketches and modify them, or change
the extrusion parameters of the pad or pocket operations, which will update
the final object.

## Working with the Draft and BIM workbenches

The [Draft Workbench](/Draft_Workbench "Draft Workbench") and [BIM
Workbench](/BIM_Workbench "BIM Workbench") behave a bit differently than the
other workbenches above, although they follow the same rules, which are common
to all of FreeCAD. In short, while the Sketcher and PartDesign are made
primarily to design single pieces, Draft and BIM are made to ease your work
when working with several, simpler objects.

The [Draft Workbench](/Draft_Workbench "Draft Workbench") offers you 2D tools
somewhat similar to what you can find in traditional 2D CAD applications such
as [AutoCAD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AutoCAD). However, 2D drafting
being far away from the scope of FreeCAD, don't expect to find there the full
array of tools that these dedicated applications offer. Most of the Draft
tools work not only in a 2D plane but also in the full 3D space, and benefit
from special helper systems such as [Work planes](/Draft_SelectPlane "Draft
SelectPlane") and [object snapping](/Draft_Snap "Draft Snap").

The [BIM Workbench](/BIM_Workbench "BIM Workbench") adds
[BIM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Building_Information_Modeling) tools to
FreeCAD, allowing you to build architectural models with parametric objects.
The BIM workbench relies extensively on other modules such as Draft and
Sketcher. All the Draft tools are also present in the BIM workbench, and most
BIM tools make use of the Draft helper systems.

A typical workflow with BIM and Draft workbenches might be:

  1. Draw a couple of lines with the Draft Line tool
  2. Select each line and press the Wall tool to build a wall on each of them
  3. Join the walls by selecting them and pressing the BIM Add tool
  4. Create a floor object, and in the Tree view drag your walls into the floor object
  5. Create a building object, and in the Tree view drag your floor (which now includes the walls) into the building object
  6. Create a window by clicking the Window tool, select a preset in its panel, then click on a face of a wall
  7. Add dimensions by first setting the working plane if necessary, then using the Draft Dimension tool

Which will give you this:

[![](/images/thumb/d/df/Arch_workflow_example.jpg/600px-
Arch_workflow_example.jpg)](/index.php?title=File:Arch_workflow_example.jpg&filetimestamp=20140212173658&)

More on the [Tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials") page.

## Addons

Any user can develop their own new features for FreeCAD and make them
available to the FreeCAD community as an [addon](/Addon "Addon").

There are three types of addons:

  * [Macros](/Macros "Macros"): short snippet of [Python](/Python "Python") code that provides a new tool or functionality in a single file ending with `.FCMacro`.
  * [Workbenches](/External_workbenches "External workbenches"): collections of Python files that provide related [Gui Commands](/Gui_Command "Gui Command") (tools) centered around a particular topic.
  * [Preference Packs](/Preference_Packs "Preference Packs"): distributable collections of user preferences.

## Scripting

And finally, one of the most powerful features of FreeCAD is the
[scripting](/Power_users_hub#Scripting_in_FreeCAD "Power users hub")
environment. From the integrated python console (or from any other external
Python script), you can gain access to almost any part of FreeCAD, create or
modify geometry, modify the representation of those objects in the 3D scene or
access and modify the FreeCAD interface. Python scripting can also be used in
[macros](/Macros "Macros"), which provide an easy method to create custom
commands.

## What's new

  * See the [release notes](/Feature_list#Release_notes "Feature list") for the detailed list of features.

  

![](/images/6/6f/Arrow-left.svg) [Installing additional
components](/Installing_additional_components "Installing additional
components")

[Mouse navigation](/Mouse_navigation "Mouse navigation")
![](/images/a/af/Arrow-right.svg)

[Index](/Online_Help_Toc "Online Help Toc")
![](/images/7/76/Online_Help_Toc.svg)

Expand[![](/images/thumb/9/94/User_hub.png/24px-
User_hub.png)](/index.php?title=File:User_hub.png&filetimestamp=20190221145008&)
[User documentation](/User_hub "User hub")

  * **Getting started**
  * **Installation:** [Download](/Download "Download"), [Windows](/Installing_on_Windows "Installing on Windows"), [Linux](/Installing_on_Linux "Installing on Linux"), [Mac](/Installing_on_Mac "Installing on Mac"), [Additional components](/Installing_additional_components "Installing additional components"), [Docker](/Compile_on_Docker "Compile on Docker"), [AppImage](/AppImage "AppImage"), [Ubuntu Snap](/Ubuntu_Snap "Ubuntu Snap")
  * **Basics:** [About FreeCAD](/About_FreeCAD "About FreeCAD"), [Interface](/Interface "Interface"), [Mouse navigation](/Mouse_navigation "Mouse navigation"), [Selection methods](/Selection_methods "Selection methods"), [Object name](/Object_name "Object name"), [Preferences](/Preferences_Editor "Preferences Editor"), [Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"), [Document structure](/Document_structure "Document structure"), [Properties](/Property "Property"), [Help FreeCAD](/Help_FreeCAD "Help FreeCAD"), [Donate](/Donate "Donate")

* * *

  * **Help:** [Tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials"), [Video tutorials](/Video_tutorials "Video tutorials")
  * **[Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"):** [Std Base](/Std_Base "Std Base"), [Assembly](/Assembly_Workbench "Assembly Workbench"), [BIM](/BIM_Workbench "BIM Workbench"), [CAM](/CAM_Workbench "CAM Workbench"), [Draft](/Draft_Workbench "Draft Workbench"), [FEM](/FEM_Workbench "FEM Workbench"), [Inspection](/Inspection_Workbench "Inspection Workbench"), [Material](/Material_Workbench "Material Workbench"), [Mesh](/Mesh_Workbench "Mesh Workbench"), [OpenSCAD](/OpenSCAD_Workbench "OpenSCAD Workbench"), [Part](/Part_Workbench "Part Workbench"), [PartDesign](/PartDesign_Workbench "PartDesign Workbench"), [Points](/Points_Workbench "Points Workbench"), [Reverse Engineering](/Reverse_Engineering_Workbench "Reverse Engineering Workbench"), [Robot](/Robot_Workbench "Robot Workbench"), [Sketcher](/Sketcher_Workbench "Sketcher Workbench"), [Spreadsheet](/Spreadsheet_Workbench "Spreadsheet Workbench"), [Surface](/Surface_Workbench "Surface Workbench"), [TechDraw](/TechDraw_Workbench "TechDraw Workbench"), [Test Framework](/Testing "Testing")

* * *

  * **[Addons](/Addon "Addon"):** [Addon Manager](/Std_AddonMgr "Std AddonMgr"), [External workbenches](/External_workbenches "External workbenches"), [Scripting and macros](/Scripting_and_macros "Scripting and macros")

* * *

  * **Hubs:** [User hub](/User_hub "User hub"), [Power users hub](/Power_users_hub "Power users hub"), [Developer hub](/Developer_hub "Developer hub")

