---
url: https://wiki.freecad.org/Help_FreeCAD
title: Help FreeCAD
scraped_at: 2025-09-08 16:44:44
---

Toggle the table of contents

## Contents

move to sidebar hide

  * Beginning
  * 1 Introduction
  * 2 Donate money
  * 3 Work on the documentation
  * 4 Share your FreeCAD knowledge
  * 5 Translate FreeCAD
  * 6 Translate the documentation
  * 7 Help others to know FreeCAD
  * 8 Report bugs and ask for interesting features
  * 9 Triage bugs
  * 10 Design artwork
  * 11 Write code
  * 12 Create models

# Help FreeCAD

  * [Page](/Help_FreeCAD "View the content page \[ctrl-option-c\]")
  * [Discussion](/index.php?title=Talk:Help_FreeCAD&action=edit&redlink=1 "Discussion about the content page \(page does not exist\) \[ctrl-option-t\]")

English

  * [Read](/Help_FreeCAD)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=Help_FreeCAD&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=Help_FreeCAD&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [Edit on GitHub](https://github.com/Reqrefusion/FreeCAD-Documentation-Project/blob/main/wiki/Help_FreeCAD.wikitext "Edit this page on GitHub")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=Help_FreeCAD&action=history "Past revisions of this page \[ctrl-option-h\]")

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * [Read](/Help_FreeCAD)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=Help_FreeCAD&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=Help_FreeCAD&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=Help_FreeCAD&action=history)

General

  * [What links here](/Special:WhatLinksHere/Help_FreeCAD "A list of all wiki pages that link here \[ctrl-option-j\]")
  * [Related changes](/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Help_FreeCAD "Recent changes in pages linked from this page \[ctrl-option-k\]")
  * [Special pages](/Special:SpecialPages "A list of all special pages \[ctrl-option-q\]")
  * [Permanent link](https://wiki.freecad.org/index.php?title=Help_FreeCAD&oldid=1602918 "Permanent link to this revision of this page")
  * [Page information](/index.php?title=Help_FreeCAD&action=info "More information about this page")
  * Expand all

Print/export

  * [Download as PDF](/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=Help_FreeCAD&action=show-download-screen)
  * [Printable version](javascript:print\(\); "Printable version of this page \[ctrl-option-p\]")

From FreeCAD Documentation

[Translate this page](/Special:Translate?group=page-
Help+FreeCAD&action=page&filter=&language=en)This is the approved revision of
this page, as well as being the most recent.

Other languages:

  * [](/index.php?title=Special:Translate&group=page-Help+FreeCAD&language=&task=view "Start translation for this language")
  * [Deutsch](/Help_FreeCAD/de "FreeCAD Unterstützen \(94% translated\)")
  * English
  * [Türkçe](/Help_FreeCAD/tr "FreeCAD'e yardım edin \(3% translated\)")
  * [español](/Help_FreeCAD/es "Ayuda a FreeCAD \(58% translated\)")
  * [français](/Help_FreeCAD/fr "Contribuer à FreeCAD \(100% translated\)")
  * [hrvatski](/Help_FreeCAD/hr "Pomozite FreeCAD-u \(48% translated\)")
  * [italiano](/Help_FreeCAD/it "Contribuire a FreeCAD \(100% translated\)")
  * [polski](/Help_FreeCAD/pl "Pomóż w rozwoju FreeCAD \(100% translated\)")
  * [português](/Help_FreeCAD/pt "Ajudar o FreeCAD \(3% translated\)")
  * [português do Brasil](/Help_FreeCAD/pt-br "Ajude o FreeCAD \(52% translated\)")
  * [română](/Help_FreeCAD/ro "Help FreeCAD \(16% translated\)")
  * [suomi](/Help_FreeCAD/fi "Auta FreeCADiä \(3% translated\)")
  * [svenska](/Help_FreeCAD/sv "Help FreeCAD \(3% translated\)")
  * [čeština](/Help_FreeCAD/cs "Help FreeCAD \(3% translated\)")
  * [български](/Help_FreeCAD/bg "Help FreeCAD/bg \(0% translated\)")
  * [русский](/Help_FreeCAD/ru "Помоги FreeCAD \(94% translated\)")
  * [українська](/Help_FreeCAD/uk "Help FreeCAD \(3% translated\)")
  * [中文（中国大陆）](/Help_FreeCAD/zh-cn "帮助FreeCAD \(35% translated\)")
  * [中文（臺灣）](/Help_FreeCAD/zh-tw "幫助FreeCAD \(16% translated\)")
  * [日本語](/Help_FreeCAD/ja "FreeCADへの貢献 \(3% translated\)")
  * [한국어](/Help_FreeCAD/ko "FreeCAD 돕기 \(23% translated\)")

## Introduction

If you like FreeCAD and would like to help the project, there are many things
you can do, no matter if you prefer to invest time or money, or if you know
how to write code or not.

## Donate money

Although FreeCAD doesn't need money to be developed, donations can help the
project to grow further and faster. The [Donate](/Donate "Donate") page lists
all the options you have to donate money to the project.

## Work on the documentation

Help us to build, correct and extend this documentation. Correct mistakes,
extend or correct pages that are unclear, create new pages if a topic is
missing, etc. Contributing to the FreeCAD wiki is easy, at
[WikiPages](/WikiPages "WikiPages") you can find the general guidelines and
the help needed to get you started. To edit the wiki, you will need a wiki
account with "Editor" permissions (the wiki is write-protected to avoid
spamming). You can ask for an account [on the
forum](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?f=21&t=6830) or on the [IRC
channel](https://wiki.freecad.org/Help#Chat). Please note that the IRC channel
may not be as responsive as the forum. [The official FreeCAD
forum](https://forum.freecad.org) should be the premier place to ask questions
and start discussions, As it will help preserve the experience and knowledge
of the community.

A couple of areas that would welcome your work:

  * The [Category:Command Reference](/Category:Command_Reference "Category:Command Reference") page lists and documents all of the FreeCAD [commands](/Command "Command"). Most of them contain little to no information at all. Please refer to [WikiPages](/WikiPages "WikiPages") for good examples of what command documentation pages should look like.
  * The [Tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials") section needs examples on how to use the workbenches. If you developed something cool with FreeCAD, why not document how you did it for posterity?
  * There are open tickets on the FreeCAD ["bug tracker"](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues) tagged ["documentation"](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Adocumentation) that could use some love.

## Share your FreeCAD knowledge

The user community around FreeCAD is still small, but already includes several
advanced users who do a very important job in showing to newcomers how to use
the software. If you begin to feel comfortable with FreeCAD, your knowledge
could be very valuable to others, and you might contribute with important
assets, like:

  * Showing the work you do with FreeCAD on the [Users Showcase forum](https://forum.freecad.org/viewforum.php?f=24). You can post screenshots, and, even better, attach the FreeCAD files so other people can examine it and understand how you did it.
  * Recording [videos](https://www.youtube.com/user/FreeCADNews) showing how you did something interesting in FreeCAD. These videos usually do a great job in showing new features.
  * Write [tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials") describing or teaching something interesting. You can write tutorials on your own blog, directly on our wiki, or even on the forum.
  * Post on the [Mastodon](https://joinmastodon.org/) open source social network (and [follow FreeCAD](https://fosstodon.org/@FreeCAD) there), on the [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/groups/416491481766626) community or on [Twitter](https://twitter.com) (and [follow FreeCAD](https://twitter.com/FreeCADNews) there). Use the hashtags #FreeCAD, #MadeWithFreeCAD or #fc3d to make your FreeCAD-related posts easier to find by other FreeCAD users.
  * Look into the latest FreeCAD posts on [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/search/?q=freecad&type=link&sort=new), [3dprinting.stackexchange](https://3dprinting.stackexchange.com/search?tab=newest&q=freecad), [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/search?q=freecad)... Try to answer them and participate in the discussions sharing your experience and information.
  * Be present at the FreeCAD IRC channel or [other chat groups](https://www.freecad.org/wiki/Help#Chat).

## Translate FreeCAD

Translate FreeCAD to your own language. All text strings of the FreeCAD
interface can be easily translated to other languages. All we need is someone
who knows that other languages and is willing to help! All the translations
are done online on [Crowdin](https://crowdin.net/project/freecad).

For details on translation, see [Localisation](/Localisation "Localisation").

## Translate the documentation

Translating is easy, the FreeCAD wiki supports a translation plugin which
allows you to translate the base English page to other languages.

For details on translation, see [Localisation#Translating the
wiki](/Localisation#Translating_the_wiki "Localisation").

Please be sure you are familiar with the basics of wiki markup; see
[Help:Editing](/Help:Editing "Help:Editing") for a reference.

Then head to [WikiPages](/WikiPages "WikiPages") to familiarize yourself with
the style used in this wiki, particularly when it comes to templates.

## Help others to know FreeCAD

  * Talk about FreeCAD to other people who might be interested
  * Find interesting uses for FreeCAD, and document it, for example with screenshots. FreeCAD is very young, and not many people see what they can do with it. If you are a FreeCAD fan already, you surely know some cool thing FreeCAD can do. Help us to show that to others!
  * Hang on the forum, and help newcomers to solve basic questions
  * Write tutorials, record videos, etc., showing what you do with FreeCAD
  * Contribute with files, drawings, etc. We still lack good example files of what can be done with FreeCAD
  * Help to promote FreeCAD on GitHub by ["Starring" and "Watching"](https://help.github.com/articles/be-social/#watch-a-project) the [FreeCAD repository](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD)

## Report bugs and ask for interesting features

[![](/images/2/22/Bugreport-workflow.png)](/index.php?title=File:Bugreport-
workflow.png&filetimestamp=20170609105123&)

Although the place to report confirmed bugs and suggest new features is
eventually the **[FreeCAD Issue Tracker on
GitHub](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues)** , please always post bug
reports and feature requests to the Help forum first. In order to save
developers time (triaging and handling hard to understand bugs can be very
time consuming), and avoid frustrations because your issue was not handled the
way you would like, please read the following:

  * Bugs and features requests are handled in the same tracker. Just mark your issue as "bug" (something that doesn't work as it should) or "feature" (something that is not there but you think it would be good to have)
  * Although originally you could submit issues anonymously, unfortunately this had to be cancelled due to spam. Now if you would like to create/edit tickets you will have to create an account. You will then by default be notified when someone adds notes to the issue. In many cases, the person who will handle the bug will need more information from you.
  * When reporting a bug, the most important point is to allow developers to reproduce it. Be sure to include the exact steps needed to make the bug happen, so another person can do the same and see the bug happen on his machine too. If the developer cannot see the bug, he cannot solve it either.
  * Also include information that can help developers to situate the problem, like the operating system you are running FreeCAD on, the exact version of FreeCAD and the relevant libraries. Please post all the data by using the "copy to clip board" button in the Help (menu) → about FreeCAD dialogue.
  * No matter how sure you are that you have found a bug, please always discuss bugs first in the [Help forum](https://forum.freecad.org/viewforum.php?f=3).
  * Before submitting a feature request, always discuss it with other users first on the [Open discussion forum](https://forum.freecad.org/viewforum.php?f=8), so you might end up with a more solid proposal, with more chances to interest a developer to implement it.
  * Remember that FreeCAD is developed by volunteers who use their free time to work on it. Although everyone tries his best to make the best possible application, your bug report might be treated with low priority, or canceled if you cannot give sufficient information, and your feature request might be postponed or even refused if no developer has interest in implement it or if that would request an unrealistic amount of work.

## Triage bugs

There are dozens of bugs reported on
[GitHub](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues) weekly. It takes a lot of
time to read them, categorize them, verify if the issue is reproducible, see
if some easy actions can be done, or ask the person who posted the issue to
provide more information. Helping to triage is easy, just head over the
[GitHub](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues) and start commenting on
any issue where you think you might be able to help!

## Design artwork

See the [Artwork](/Artwork "Artwork") and [Artwork
Guidelines](/Artwork_Guidelines "Artwork Guidelines") page for guidelines
about designing icons for FreeCAD.

## Write code

Writing code for FreeCAD is not hard, and you don't need any permission, you
can start right now to work on something you want, then submit a patch on the
[issue tracker](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues) or request a merge
from a [git branch](https://github.com/FreeCAD). To avoid headaches you should
meet the following prerequisites first:

  * Information [how to compile FreeCAD](/Developer_hub#Compiling_FreeCAD "Developer hub") is available for different operating systems.
  * Before you start to code for FreeCAD, you must know how FreeCAD works. This seems obvious, but if you don't know how it is supposed to work you won't know what to do internally or how to do it.
  * Almost everything can be done either in Python or C++. The internals work almost the same in both languages. We suggest you read through the [Power users hub](/Power_users_hub "Power users hub") pages, even if you're going to code in C++ since it will give you a good overview of the internals.
  * If you are going to work in C++, make sure you can compile FreeCAD without problems first.
  * Present yourself to other developers. FreeCAD is before anything a social project, we discuss a lot of things on the [forum](https://forum.freecad.org) before implementing it, and it's always best to discuss your ideas and tell people what you are planning to do before actually doing it. We also have an [IRC channel](https://wiki.freecad.org/Help#Chat) which is synchronized with our [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#FreeCAD_FreeCAD:gitter.im) channel, as well as a [Discord channel](https://discord.gg/w2cTKGzccC).
  * Since 2016, FreeCAD also participates in the [Google Summer of Code 2020](/Google_Summer_of_Code_2020 "Google Summer of Code 2020"). Be sure to check our ideas there if you are interested in participating in the next edition.
  * More and more of the FreeCAD functionality is not written in the FreeCAD code itself but in addons, macros and extensions. Together, this ecosystem is what makes FreeCAD powerful. Oftentimes, working on an addon is easier because there is less code to read and understand, and fewer people involved. check the [Addons repository](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-addons) and [Macros repository](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-macros) to get some ideas!

## Create models

FreeCAD features a [Models library](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-
library) that is free and open to everyone. Why not add some useful parts
there, that could be reused by others? Be sure to create models yourself from
scratch, to keep the library 100% free of possibly copyrighted or non-free
components.

  

Expand[![](/images/thumb/9/94/User_hub.png/24px-
User_hub.png)](/index.php?title=File:User_hub.png&filetimestamp=20190221145008&)
[User documentation](/User_hub "User hub")

  * **[Getting started](/Getting_started "Getting started")**
  * **Installation:** [Download](/Download "Download"), [Windows](/Installing_on_Windows "Installing on Windows"), [Linux](/Installing_on_Linux "Installing on Linux"), [Mac](/Installing_on_Mac "Installing on Mac"), [Additional components](/Installing_additional_components "Installing additional components"), [Docker](/Compile_on_Docker "Compile on Docker"), [AppImage](/AppImage "AppImage"), [Ubuntu Snap](/Ubuntu_Snap "Ubuntu Snap")
  * **Basics:** [About FreeCAD](/About_FreeCAD "About FreeCAD"), [Interface](/Interface "Interface"), [Mouse navigation](/Mouse_navigation "Mouse navigation"), [Selection methods](/Selection_methods "Selection methods"), [Object name](/Object_name "Object name"), [Preferences](/Preferences_Editor "Preferences Editor"), [Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"), [Document structure](/Document_structure "Document structure"), [Properties](/Property "Property"), Help FreeCAD, [Donate](/Donate "Donate")

* * *

  * **Help:** [Tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials"), [Video tutorials](/Video_tutorials "Video tutorials")
  * **[Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"):** [Std Base](/Std_Base "Std Base"), [Assembly](/Assembly_Workbench "Assembly Workbench"), [BIM](/BIM_Workbench "BIM Workbench"), [CAM](/CAM_Workbench "CAM Workbench"), [Draft](/Draft_Workbench "Draft Workbench"), [FEM](/FEM_Workbench "FEM Workbench"), [Inspection](/Inspection_Workbench "Inspection Workbench"), [Material](/Material_Workbench "Material Workbench"), [Mesh](/Mesh_Workbench "Mesh Workbench"), [OpenSCAD](/OpenSCAD_Workbench "OpenSCAD Workbench"), [Part](/Part_Workbench "Part Workbench"), [PartDesign](/PartDesign_Workbench "PartDesign Workbench"), [Points](/Points_Workbench "Points Workbench"), [Reverse Engineering](/Reverse_Engineering_Workbench "Reverse Engineering Workbench"), [Robot](/Robot_Workbench "Robot Workbench"), [Sketcher](/Sketcher_Workbench "Sketcher Workbench"), [Spreadsheet](/Spreadsheet_Workbench "Spreadsheet Workbench"), [Surface](/Surface_Workbench "Surface Workbench"), [TechDraw](/TechDraw_Workbench "TechDraw Workbench"), [Test Framework](/Testing "Testing")

* * *

  * **[Addons](/Addon "Addon"):** [Addon Manager](/Std_AddonMgr "Std AddonMgr"), [External workbenches](/External_workbenches "External workbenches"), [Scripting and macros](/Scripting_and_macros "Scripting and macros")

* * *

  * **Hubs:** [User hub](/User_hub "User hub"), [Power users hub](/Power_users_hub "Power users hub"), [Developer hub](/Developer_hub "Developer hub")

