---
url: https://wiki.freecad.org/Licence
title: Licence
scraped_at: 2025-09-08 16:44:47
---

Toggle the table of contents

## Contents

move to sidebar hide

  * Beginning
  * 1 Licenses used in FreeCAD
  * 2 Impact of the licenses Toggle Impact of the licenses subsection
    * 2.1 All users
    * 2.2 Professional users
    * 2.3 Open-source software developers
    * 2.4 Closed-source software developers
    * 2.5 Files
  * 3 Logo
  * 4 Statement of the main developer

# License

  * [Page](/License "View the content page \[ctrl-option-c\]")
  * [Discussion](/Talk:License "Discussion about the content page \[ctrl-option-t\]")

English

  * [Read](/License)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=License&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=License&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [Edit on GitHub](https://github.com/Reqrefusion/FreeCAD-Documentation-Project/blob/main/wiki/License.wikitext "Edit this page on GitHub")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=License&action=history "Past revisions of this page \[ctrl-option-h\]")

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * [Read](/License)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=License&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=License&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=License&action=history)

General

  * [What links here](/Special:WhatLinksHere/License "A list of all wiki pages that link here \[ctrl-option-j\]")
  * [Related changes](/Special:RecentChangesLinked/License "Recent changes in pages linked from this page \[ctrl-option-k\]")
  * [Special pages](/Special:SpecialPages "A list of all special pages \[ctrl-option-q\]")
  * [Permanent link](https://wiki.freecad.org/index.php?title=License&oldid=1605109 "Permanent link to this revision of this page")
  * [Page information](/index.php?title=License&action=info "More information about this page")
  * Expand all

Print/export

  * [Download as PDF](/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=License&action=show-download-screen)
  * [Printable version](javascript:print\(\); "Printable version of this page \[ctrl-option-p\]")

From FreeCAD Documentation

[Translate this page](/Special:Translate?group=page-
License&action=page&filter=&language=en)(Redirected from
[Licence](/index.php?title=Licence&redirect=no "Licence"))  
  
This is the approved revision of this page, as well as being the most recent.

Other languages:

  * [](/index.php?title=Special:Translate&group=page-License&language=&task=view "Start translation for this language")
  * [Deutsch](/License/de "Lizenz \(100% translated\)")
  * English
  * [Türkçe](/License/tr "Licence \(0% translated\)")
  * [español](/License/es "Licence \(6% translated\)")
  * [français](/License/fr "Licence \(100% translated\)")
  * [italiano](/License/it "Licenza \(100% translated\)")
  * [polski](/License/pl "Licencja \(100% translated\)")
  * [português do Brasil](/License/pt-br "Licença \(0% translated\)")
  * [română](/License/ro "Licență \(16% translated\)")
  * [svenska](/License/sv "Licence \(6% translated\)")
  * [čeština](/License/cs "Licence \(0% translated\)")
  * [русский](/License/ru "Licence \(16% translated\)")
  * [中文（中国大陆）](/License/zh-cn "许可证 \(16% translated\)")
  * [中文（臺灣）](/License/zh-tw "授權 \(0% translated\)")
  * [日本語](/License/ja "ライセンス \(47% translated\)")

![](/images/6/6f/Arrow-left.svg) [Dialog creation](/Dialog_creation "Dialog
creation")

[Compiling on Windows](/Compile_on_Windows "Compile on Windows")
![](/images/a/af/Arrow-right.svg)

[Index](/Online_Help_Toc "Online Help Toc")
![](/images/7/76/Online_Help_Toc.svg)

## Licenses used in FreeCAD

FreeCAD uses two different licenses, one for the application itself, and one
for the documentation:

**[Lesser General Public License, version 2 or superior
(LGPL2+)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LGPL "wikipedia:LGPL")** For all of the
FreeCAD source code found in the [official Git
repository](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD). The + means you can also, at
your option, use FreeCAD under the terms of a later version of the license,
such as LGPL3

**[Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License (CC-
BY-3.0)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/)** For the
[documentation](https://wiki.freecad.org) and the
[website](https://www.freecad.org).

See FreeCAD's [debian copyright
file](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/blob/master/package/debian/copyright)
for more details about the licenses used by the different open-source
components used in FreeCAD

## Impact of the licenses

Below is a friendlier explanation of what the LGPL license means for you:

#### All users

Anybody can **download, use and redistribute FreeCAD free of charge** ,
without any restriction. Your copy of FreeCAD is truly yours, as are the files
you produce with FreeCAD. You will not be forced to update FreeCAD after a
certain time, nor change your usage of FreeCAD. Using FreeCAD doesn't bind you
to any kind of contract or obligation. The FreeCAD source code is public and
can be inspected, so it is possible to verify that it doesn't do things
without your knowledge such as sending your private data somewhere.

#### Professional users

FreeCAD can be **used freely for any kind of purpose** , being private,
commercial or institutional. Any version of FreeCAD can be deployed and
installed anywhere, any number of times. You can also modify and adapt FreeCAD
for your own purposes without any restriction. However, you cannot make the
FreeCAD developers liable for possible damage or business loss that could
occur from using FreeCAD.

#### Open-source software developers

You can use FreeCAD as a base to develop your own application, or simply
extend it by creating new modules for it. If FreeCAD is embedded into your own
application, you can choose either the GPL or the LGPL license, or any other
license that is compatible with LGPL, to allow the use of your work in
proprietary software or not. If you are developing a module to be used as an
extension, and don't include any of the FreeCAD code in it, then you can
choose any license you want. However, if you wish to see your module
integrated into FreeCAD one day, it is a good idea to use the same LGPL
license as FreeCAD itself, as FreeCAD will only accept code with LGPL, MIT or
BSD licenses.

#### Closed-source software developers

The LGPL license allows you to use FreeCAD as a component for your own
application, and you are not forced to make your application open source. You
will get support from the FreeCAD developers as long as it is not a 'one way
street'. The license states however two important conditions:

1) You must clearly **inform your users that your application is using
FreeCAD** and that FreeCAD is LGPL.

2) The LGPL license also stipulate your users must be able to swap your
modified FreeCAD component with the original FreeCAD equivalent. That is would
be done by dynamically linking to the FreeCAD components, so users are allowed
to change it. However, this is often hard to achieve by today's requirements.
At FreeCAD, we understand that the important point here is to not restrict the
freedom given to FreeCAD users by the LGPL license. So an equivalent to
dynamic linking is to offer the choice to your users, by **making your users
aware of the possibility to use FreeCAD for free**. This can be done in a
number of ways.

If any of the two conditions above are unacceptable to you or cannot be
implemented, then you must make your FreeCAD component LGPL too and release
the source code with all the modifications you made to it.

There is a special case called **derivatives** , which is when you publish
basically a "rebranded" version of FreeCAD. Derivatives which are not open-
source are prohibited by the LGPL license. The FreeCAD community is active and
efficient in finding rebranded versions, reporting them to the platforms where
they were found and exposing them until they are taken down.

#### Files

The models and other files produced with FreeCAD are not subject to any
license stated above, nor bound to any kind of restriction or ownership. Your
files are truly yours. You can set the owner of the file and specify your own
license terms for the files you produce inside FreeCAD, via menu File →
Project Information.

## Logo

The FreeCAD logo is a [trademark owned by the FPA (FreeCAD project
association)](https://fpa.freecad.org/documents/Trademark.pdf). This means the
[FPA](https://fpa.freecad.org) is the sole body authorized to say who has the
right to use the FreeCAD logo or not. The logo files, which are part of the
FreeCAD source code or available elsewhere, for example on this wiki, are
still all under the same licenses as the rest of FreeCAD (LGPL for the source
code and Creative Commons for this wiki). You are still free to use the
FreeCAD logo anywhere, on the same terms as the rest of FreeCAD, which means,
basically, that you must use it to reference FreeCAD, and not use it, for
example, for your own product, or any other way that is not referencing
FreeCAD.

## Statement of the main developer

I know that the discussion on the _"right"_ license for open source occupied a
significant portion of internet bandwidth and so is here the reason why, in my
opinion, FreeCAD should have this one.

I chose the [LGPL](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LGPL) for the project and I
know the pro and cons about the LGPL and will give you some reasons for that
decision.

FreeCAD is a mixture of a library and an application, so the GPL would be a
little bit strong for that. It would prevent writing commercial modules for
FreeCAD because it would prevent linking with the FreeCAD base libs. You may
ask why commercial modules at all? Therefore Linux is good example. Would
Linux be so successful when the GNU C Library would be GPL and therefore
prevent linking against non-GPL applications? And although I love the freedom
of Linux, I also want to be able to use the very good NVIDIA 3D graphic
driver. I understand and accept the reason NVIDIA does not wish to give away
driver code. We all work for companies and need payment or at least food. So
for me, a coexistence of open source and closed source software is not a bad
thing, when it obeys the rules of the LGPL. I would like to see someone
writing a Catia import/export processor for FreeCAD and distribute it for free
or for some money. I don't like to force him to give away more than he wants
to. That wouldn't be good neither for him nor for FreeCAD.

Nevertheless this decision is made only for the core system of FreeCAD. Every
writer of an application module may make his own decision.

> Jürgen Riegel
>
> —15 October 2006

  

![](/images/6/6f/Arrow-left.svg) [Dialog creation](/Dialog_creation "Dialog
creation")

[Compiling on Windows](/Compile_on_Windows "Compile on Windows")
![](/images/a/af/Arrow-right.svg)

[Index](/Online_Help_Toc "Online Help Toc")
![](/images/7/76/Online_Help_Toc.svg)

Expand[![](/images/thumb/9/94/User_hub.png/24px-
User_hub.png)](/index.php?title=File:User_hub.png&filetimestamp=20190221145008&)
[User documentation](/User_hub "User hub")

  * **[Getting started](/Getting_started "Getting started")**
  * **Installation:** [Download](/Download "Download"), [Windows](/Installing_on_Windows "Installing on Windows"), [Linux](/Installing_on_Linux "Installing on Linux"), [Mac](/Installing_on_Mac "Installing on Mac"), [Additional components](/Installing_additional_components "Installing additional components"), [Docker](/Compile_on_Docker "Compile on Docker"), [AppImage](/AppImage "AppImage"), [Ubuntu Snap](/Ubuntu_Snap "Ubuntu Snap")
  * **Basics:** [About FreeCAD](/About_FreeCAD "About FreeCAD"), [Interface](/Interface "Interface"), [Mouse navigation](/Mouse_navigation "Mouse navigation"), [Selection methods](/Selection_methods "Selection methods"), [Object name](/Object_name "Object name"), [Preferences](/Preferences_Editor "Preferences Editor"), [Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"), [Document structure](/Document_structure "Document structure"), [Properties](/Property "Property"), [Help FreeCAD](/Help_FreeCAD "Help FreeCAD"), [Donate](/Donate "Donate")

* * *

  * **Help:** [Tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials"), [Video tutorials](/Video_tutorials "Video tutorials")
  * **[Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"):** [Std Base](/Std_Base "Std Base"), [Assembly](/Assembly_Workbench "Assembly Workbench"), [BIM](/BIM_Workbench "BIM Workbench"), [CAM](/CAM_Workbench "CAM Workbench"), [Draft](/Draft_Workbench "Draft Workbench"), [FEM](/FEM_Workbench "FEM Workbench"), [Inspection](/Inspection_Workbench "Inspection Workbench"), [Material](/Material_Workbench "Material Workbench"), [Mesh](/Mesh_Workbench "Mesh Workbench"), [OpenSCAD](/OpenSCAD_Workbench "OpenSCAD Workbench"), [Part](/Part_Workbench "Part Workbench"), [PartDesign](/PartDesign_Workbench "PartDesign Workbench"), [Points](/Points_Workbench "Points Workbench"), [Reverse Engineering](/Reverse_Engineering_Workbench "Reverse Engineering Workbench"), [Robot](/Robot_Workbench "Robot Workbench"), [Sketcher](/Sketcher_Workbench "Sketcher Workbench"), [Spreadsheet](/Spreadsheet_Workbench "Spreadsheet Workbench"), [Surface](/Surface_Workbench "Surface Workbench"), [TechDraw](/TechDraw_Workbench "TechDraw Workbench"), [Test Framework](/Testing "Testing")

* * *

  * **[Addons](/Addon "Addon"):** [Addon Manager](/Std_AddonMgr "Std AddonMgr"), [External workbenches](/External_workbenches "External workbenches"), [Scripting and macros](/Scripting_and_macros "Scripting and macros")

* * *

  * **Hubs:** [User hub](/User_hub "User hub"), [Power users hub](/Power_users_hub "Power users hub"), [Developer hub](/Developer_hub "Developer hub")

