---
url: https://wiki.freecad.org/Manual:Introduction
title: Manual:Introduction
scraped_at: 2025-09-08 16:43:38
---

# Manual:Introduction

  * [Page](/Manual:Introduction "View the content page \[ctrl-option-c\]")
  * [Discussion](/index.php?title=Talk:Manual:Introduction&action=edit&redlink=1 "Discussion about the content page \(page does not exist\) \[ctrl-option-t\]")

English

  * [Read](/Manual:Introduction)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=Manual:Introduction&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=Manual:Introduction&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [Edit on GitHub](https://github.com/Reqrefusion/FreeCAD-Documentation-Project/blob/main/wiki/Manual;Introduction.wikitext "Edit this page on GitHub")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=Manual:Introduction&action=history "Past revisions of this page \[ctrl-option-h\]")

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * [Read](/Manual:Introduction)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=Manual:Introduction&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=Manual:Introduction&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=Manual:Introduction&action=history)

General

  * [What links here](/Special:WhatLinksHere/Manual:Introduction "A list of all wiki pages that link here \[ctrl-option-j\]")
  * [Related changes](/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Manual:Introduction "Recent changes in pages linked from this page \[ctrl-option-k\]")
  * [Special pages](/Special:SpecialPages "A list of all special pages \[ctrl-option-q\]")
  * [Permanent link](https://wiki.freecad.org/index.php?title=Manual:Introduction&oldid=1597842 "Permanent link to this revision of this page")
  * [Page information](/index.php?title=Manual:Introduction&action=info "More information about this page")

Print/export

  * [Download as PDF](/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=Manual%3AIntroduction&action=show-download-screen)
  * [Printable version](javascript:print\(\); "Printable version of this page \[ctrl-option-p\]")

From FreeCAD Documentation

[Translate this page](/Special:Translate?group=page-
Manual:Introduction&action=page&filter=&language=en)This is the approved
revision of this page, as well as being the most recent.

Other languages:

  * [](/index.php?title=Special:Translate&group=page-Manual%3AIntroduction&language=&task=view "Start translation for this language")
  * [Deutsch](/Manual:Introduction/de "Handbuch:Einleitung \(100% translated\)")
  * English
  * [español](/Manual:Introduction/es "Manual:Introducción \(14% translated\)")
  * [français](/Manual:Introduction/fr "Manuel : Introduction \(100% translated\)")
  * [hrvatski](/Manual:Introduction/hr "Priručnik:Uvod \(14% translated\)")
  * [italiano](/Manual:Introduction/it "Manuale: Introduzione \(100% translated\)")
  * [polski](/Manual:Introduction/pl "Podręcznik:Słowo wstępne \(100% translated\)")
  * [português do Brasil](/Manual:Introduction/pt-br "Manual:Introdução \(86% translated\)")
  * [română](/Manual:Introduction/ro "Manual:Introducere \(14% translated\)")
  * [русский](/Manual:Introduction/ru "Руководство: Введение \(100% translated\)")
  * [中文（中国大陆）](/Manual:Introduction/zh-cn "手册：引言 \(100% translated\)")
  * [中文（臺灣）](/Manual:Introduction/zh-tw "手冊：緒論 \(14% translated\)")
  * [日本語](/Manual:Introduction/ja "マニュアル：はじめに \(43% translated\)")
  * [한국어](/Manual:Introduction/ko "매뉴얼:소개 \(14% translated\)")

![](/images/0/06/Freecad.svg)

[Manual:What is FreeCAD](/Manual:What_is_FreeCAD "Manual:What is FreeCAD")
![](/images/a/af/Arrow-right.svg)

Manual start ![](/images/thumb/2/2f/Crystal_Clear_manual.png/24px-
Crystal_Clear_manual.png)

  * Introduction
  * Discovering FreeCAD 
    * [What is FreeCAD?](/Manual:What_is_FreeCAD "Manual:What is FreeCAD")
    * [Installing](/Manual:Installing "Manual:Installing")
      * [Installing on Windows](/Manual:Installing#installing_on_Windows "Manual:Installing")
      * [Installing on Linux](/Manual:Installing#Installing_on_Linux "Manual:Installing")
      * [Installing on Mac OS](/Manual:Installing#Installing_on_Mac_OS "Manual:Installing")
      * [Uninstalling](/Manual:Installing#Uninstalling "Manual:Installing")
      * [Setting basic preferences](/Manual:Installing#Setting_basic_preferences "Manual:Installing")
      * [Installing additional content](/Manual:Installing#Installing_additional_content "Manual:Installing")
    * [The FreeCAD interface](/Manual:The_FreeCAD_Interface "Manual:The FreeCAD Interface")
      * [Workbenches](/Manual:The_FreeCAD_Interface#Workbenches "Manual:The FreeCAD Interface")
      * [The interface](/Manual:The_FreeCAD_Interface#The_interface "Manual:The FreeCAD Interface")
      * [Customizing the interface](/Manual:The_FreeCAD_Interface#Customizing_the_interface "Manual:The FreeCAD Interface")
    * [Navigating in the 3D view](/Manual:Navigating_in_the_3D_view "Manual:Navigating in the 3D view")
      * [A word about the 3D space](/Manual:Navigating_in_the_3D_view#A_word_about_the_3D_space "Manual:Navigating in the 3D view")
      * [The FreeCAD 3D view](/Manual:Navigating_in_the_3D_view#The_FreeCAD_3D_view "Manual:Navigating in the 3D view")
      * [Selecting objects](/Manual:Navigating_in_the_3D_view#Selecting_objects "Manual:Navigating in the 3D view")
    * [The FreeCAD document](/Manual:The_FreeCAD_document "Manual:The FreeCAD document")
    * [Parametric objects](/Manual:Parametric_objects "Manual:Parametric objects")
    * [Import and export to other filetypes](/Manual:Import_and_export_to_other_filetypes "Manual:Import and export to other filetypes")
  * Working with FreeCAD 
    * [All workbenches at a glance](/Manual:All_workbenches_at_a_glance "Manual:All workbenches at a glance")
    * [Traditional modeling, the CSG way](/Manual:Traditional_modeling,_the_CSG_way "Manual:Traditional modeling, the CSG way")
    * [Traditional 2D drafting](/Manual:Traditional_2D_drafting "Manual:Traditional 2D drafting")
    * [Modeling for product design](/Manual:Modeling_for_product_design "Manual:Modeling for product design")
    * [Preparing models for 3D printing](/Manual:Preparing_models_for_3D_printing "Manual:Preparing models for 3D printing")
      * [Exporting to slicers](/Manual:Preparing_models_for_3D_printing#Exporting_to_slicers "Manual:Preparing models for 3D printing")
      * [Converting objects to meshes](/Manual:Preparing_models_for_3D_printing#Converting_objects_to_meshes "Manual:Preparing models for 3D printing")
      * [Using Slic3r](/Manual:Preparing_models_for_3D_printing#Using_Slic3r "Manual:Preparing models for 3D printing")
      * [Using the Cura addon](/Manual:Preparing_models_for_3D_printing#Using_the_Cura_addon "Manual:Preparing models for 3D printing")
      * [Generating G-code](/Manual:Preparing_models_for_3D_printing#Generating_G-code "Manual:Preparing models for 3D printing")
    * [Generating 2D drawings](/Manual:Generating_2D_drawings "Manual:Generating 2D drawings")
    * [BIM modeling](/Manual:BIM_modeling "Manual:BIM modeling")
    * [Using spreadsheets](/Manual:Using_spreadsheets "Manual:Using spreadsheets")
      * [Reading properties](/Manual:Using_spreadsheets#Reading_properties "Manual:Using spreadsheets")
      * [Writing properties](/Manual:Using_spreadsheets#Writing_properties "Manual:Using spreadsheets")
    * [Creating FEM analyses](/Manual:Creating_FEM_analyses "Manual:Creating FEM analyses")
    * [Creating renderings](/Manual:Creating_renderings "Manual:Creating renderings")
  * Python scripting 
    * [A gentle introduction](/Manual:A_gentle_introduction "Manual:A gentle introduction")
      * [Writing Python code](/Manual:A_gentle_introduction#Writing_Python_code "Manual:A gentle introduction")
      * [Manipulating FreeCAD objects](/Manual:A_gentle_introduction#Manipulating_FreeCAD_objects "Manual:A gentle introduction")
      * [Vectors and Placements](/Manual:A_gentle_introduction#Vectors_and_Placements "Manual:A gentle introduction")
    * [Creating and manipulating geometry](/Manual:Creating_and_manipulating_geometry "Manual:Creating and manipulating geometry")
    * [Creating parametric objects](/Manual:Creating_parametric_objects "Manual:Creating parametric objects")
    * [Creating interface tools](/Manual:Creating_interface_tools "Manual:Creating interface tools")
  * [The community](/Manual:The_Community "Manual:The Community")

[FreeCAD](https://www.freecad.org) is an open-source, free parametric 3D
computer-aided design (CAD) modelling tool used to create objects ranging from
simple designs to complex projects consisting of extensive assemblies of
numerous parts. Due to its open-source nature, FreeCAD can be freely
downloaded, distributed, modified, and used for both personal and commercial
purposes. The source code is openly published under the
[LGPL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_Lesser_General_Public_License)
license. This makes FreeCAD an appealing option not only for relatively
inexperienced users, such as hobbyists in the 3D printing world, but also for
experienced users looking to experiment with a different parametric tool.

The software was initially released in its infancy in 2002. Since then, thanks
to the continuous contributions from a devoted community of developers and
users, FreeCAD has grown slowly but steadily. The passionate efforts of
numerous contributors have not only improved FreeCAD's capabilities as a CAD
tool but have also led to the development of additional functionalities in
separate domains closely tied to the base FreeCAD suite. Some notable examples
include the FEM workbench, which enables the execution of simple Finite
Element Analysis, as well as the BIM workbench which offers Building
Information Modeling (BIM) capabilities.

This user manual is being written and updated for version
[1.0](/Release_notes_1.0 "Release notes 1.0") of FreeCAD. Its purpose is to
serve as a guide for individuals who wish to start using FreeCAD for their
projects. No extensive prior knowledge of any CAD software is required, and
the contents of this manual are organized in a straightforward and
comprehensive manner, divided into various application areas. The guide
includes instructions regarding the installation of FreeCAD, the use of its
most prominent workbenches, and extends to more complex topics such as Python
scripting. Efforts have been made to present the information in an organized,
step-by-step fashion, complete with images. This structure ensures that both
novice CAD users and more experienced individuals can benefit from studying
this manual. The contents of this manual are published under the [Creative
Commons 4.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) license, and can be
freely used, downloaded, copied, and modified. The FreeCAD Manual is
continuously improved through user experiences and contributions. A [Python
script](https://wiki.freecad.org/FreeCAD_manual_converter) is available to
convert the latest version of this manual into PDF or EPUB formats for offline
reading.

Another valuable resource is the [FreeCAD wiki](/Main_Page "Main Page"), where
numerous contributors have added useful information covering every aspect of
the software. Due to the wealth of information available, navigating and using
the wiki can be somewhat challenging and overwhelming, especially for new
users. For this reason, it is advised to first study the user manual, which
offers a more streamlined and smooth introduction, before delving into the
more extensive details available in the wiki. Finally, the [FreeCAD
Forums](https://forum.freecad.org/) are also very helpful and provide
additional support and insights.

  

![](/images/0/06/Freecad.svg)

[Manual:What is FreeCAD](/Manual:What_is_FreeCAD "Manual:What is FreeCAD")
![](/images/a/af/Arrow-right.svg)

Manual start ![](/images/thumb/2/2f/Crystal_Clear_manual.png/24px-
Crystal_Clear_manual.png)

