---
url: https://wiki.freecad.org/OpenSCAD_Workbench
title: OpenSCAD Workbench
scraped_at: 2025-09-08 16:44:13
---

Toggle the table of contents

## Contents

move to sidebar hide

  * Beginning
  * 1 Introduction
  * 2 Dependencies
  * 3 OpenSCAD language and file format
  * 4 Tools
  * 5 Preferences
  * 6 Limitations
  * 7 Importing text
  * 8 Hints
  * 9 Tutorials
  * 10 Links

# OpenSCAD Workbench

  * [Page](/OpenSCAD_Workbench "View the content page \[ctrl-option-c\]")
  * [Discussion](/index.php?title=Talk:OpenSCAD_Workbench&action=edit&redlink=1 "Discussion about the content page \(page does not exist\) \[ctrl-option-t\]")

English

  * [Read](/OpenSCAD_Workbench)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=OpenSCAD_Workbench&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=OpenSCAD_Workbench&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [Edit on GitHub](https://github.com/Reqrefusion/FreeCAD-Documentation-Project/blob/main/wiki/OpenSCAD_Workbench.wikitext "Edit this page on GitHub")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=OpenSCAD_Workbench&action=history "Past revisions of this page \[ctrl-option-h\]")

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * [Read](/OpenSCAD_Workbench)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=OpenSCAD_Workbench&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=OpenSCAD_Workbench&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=OpenSCAD_Workbench&action=history)

General

  * [What links here](/Special:WhatLinksHere/OpenSCAD_Workbench "A list of all wiki pages that link here \[ctrl-option-j\]")
  * [Related changes](/Special:RecentChangesLinked/OpenSCAD_Workbench "Recent changes in pages linked from this page \[ctrl-option-k\]")
  * [Special pages](/Special:SpecialPages "A list of all special pages \[ctrl-option-q\]")
  * [Permanent link](https://wiki.freecad.org/index.php?title=OpenSCAD_Workbench&oldid=1628006 "Permanent link to this revision of this page")
  * [Page information](/index.php?title=OpenSCAD_Workbench&action=info "More information about this page")
  * Expand all

Print/export

  * [Download as PDF](/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=OpenSCAD_Workbench&action=show-download-screen)
  * [Printable version](javascript:print\(\); "Printable version of this page \[ctrl-option-p\]")

From FreeCAD Documentation

[Translate this page](/Special:Translate?group=page-
OpenSCAD+Workbench&action=page&filter=&language=en)This is the approved
revision of this page, as well as being the most recent.

Other languages:

  * [](/index.php?title=Special:Translate&group=page-OpenSCAD+Workbench&language=&task=view "Start translation for this language")
  * [Bahasa Indonesia](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/id "OpenSCAD Module \(3% translated\)")
  * [Deutsch](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/de "Arbeitsbereich OpenSCAD \(94% translated\)")
  * English
  * [Türkçe](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/tr "OpenSCAD Module \(3% translated\)")
  * [español](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/es "Ambiente de trabajo OpenSCAD \(54% translated\)")
  * [français](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/fr "Atelier OpenSCAD \(94% translated\)")
  * [hrvatski](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/hr "OpenSCAD Modul \(0% translated\)")
  * [italiano](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/it "Ambiente OpenSCAD \(86% translated\)")
  * [polski](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/pl "Środowisko pracy OpenSCAD \(100% translated\)")
  * [português](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/pt "OpenSCAD Module \(3% translated\)")
  * [português do Brasil](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/pt-br "Bancada de trabalho OpenSCAD \(57% translated\)")
  * [română](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/ro "Aelierul OpenSCAD \(26% translated\)")
  * [suomi](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/fi "OpenSCAD Workbench \(3% translated\)")
  * [svenska](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/sv "OpenSCAD Module \(3% translated\)")
  * [čeština](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/cs "OpenSCAD Module \(3% translated\)")
  * [русский](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/ru "Верстак OpenSCAD \(89% translated\)")
  * [українська](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/uk "OpenSCAD Workbench/uk \(3% translated\)")
  * [中文](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/zh "OpenSCAD Workbench/zh \(3% translated\)")
  * [中文（中国大陆）](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/zh-cn "OpenSCAD Workbench/zh-cn \(3% translated\)")
  * [中文（臺灣）](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/zh-tw "OpenSCAD Workbench/zh-tw \(3% translated\)")
  * [日本語](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/ja "OpenSCADワークベンチ \(3% translated\)")
  * [한국어](/OpenSCAD_Workbench/ko "OpenSCAD 작업대 \(14% translated\)")

![](/images/6/6f/Arrow-left.svg) ![](/images/8/84/Workbench_Mesh.svg) [Mesh
Workbench](/Mesh_Workbench "Mesh Workbench")

![](/images/0/04/Workbench_Part.svg) [Part Workbench](/Part_Workbench "Part
Workbench") ![](/images/a/af/Arrow-right.svg)

[Index](/Online_Help_Toc "Online Help Toc")
![](/images/7/76/Online_Help_Toc.svg)

[![](/images/4/4e/Workbench_OpenSCAD.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_OpenSCAD.svg&filetimestamp=20200404173116&)OpenSCAD
workbench icon

## Introduction

The
[![](/images/4/4e/Workbench_OpenSCAD.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_OpenSCAD.svg&filetimestamp=20200404173116&)
OpenSCAD Workbench is intended to offer interoperability with the open source
software [OpenSCAD](https://www.openscad.org/). This program is not
distributed as part of FreeCAD, but should be installed to make full use of
this workbench. OpenSCAD should not be confused with
[OpenCASCADE](/OpenCASCADE "OpenCASCADE"), which is the geometrical kernel
that FreeCAD uses to build geometry on screen. The OpenCASCADE libraries are
always needed to use FreeCAD, while the OpenSCAD executable is entirely
optional.

It contains a [CSG](/OpenSCAD_CSG "OpenSCAD CSG") importer to open the CSG
files from OpenSCAD, and an exporter to output a CSG based tree. Geometry
which is not based on CSG operations will be exported as a mesh.

This workbench contains functions to modify the CSG feature tree and repair
models. It also contains general purpose tools that do not require
installation of OpenSCAD; they can be used in conjunction with other
workbenches. For example, the [Mesh Workbench](/Mesh_Workbench "Mesh
Workbench") internally uses the OpenSCAD functions to perform operations with
[meshes](/Mesh "Mesh"), as they are quite robust.

[![](/images/c/c7/OpenSCADexamaple1.png)](/index.php?title=File:OpenSCADexamaple1.png&filetimestamp=20120911115616&)

## Dependencies

In FreeCAD 0.19, the Ply (Python-Lex-Yacc) module, which is used to import CSG
files, was removed from the FreeCAD source code, as it is a third party
library not developed by FreeCAD. As a result, you now need to install Ply
before using the OpenSCAD Workbench. When using a pre-packaged, stable version
of FreeCAD this dependency should be installed automatically in all platforms;
in other cases, for example, when [compiling](/Compiling "Compiling") from
source, you may have to install it from an online repository.

In openSUSE this is done by:

    
    
    sudo zypper install python3-ply
    

In Debian/Ubuntu based systems this is done like the following:

    
    
    sudo apt install python3-ply
    

The general installation in all platforms can be done from the Python package
index.

    
    
    pip3 install --user ply
    

## OpenSCAD language and file format

The OpenSCAD language allows the use of variables and loops. It allows you to
specify sub-modules to reuse geometry and code. This high degree of
flexibility makes parsing very complex. Currently the OpenSCAD Workbench
cannot handle the OpenSCAD language natively. Instead, if OpenSCAD is
installed, it can be used to convert the input to the CSG format, which is a
subset of the OpenSCAD language, and can be used as the input to OpenSCAD for
further processing. During conversion all parametric behavior is lost, meaning
that all variable names are discarded, loops expanded, and mathematical
expressions evaluated.

## Tools

  * [![](/images/a/a9/OpenSCAD_ReplaceObject.svg)](/index.php?title=File:OpenSCAD_ReplaceObject.svg&filetimestamp=20170323135815&) [Replace Object](/OpenSCAD_ReplaceObject "OpenSCAD ReplaceObject"): Replaces an object in the Tree View.
  * [![](/images/9/9b/OpenSCAD_RemoveSubtree.svg)](/index.php?title=File:OpenSCAD_RemoveSubtree.svg&filetimestamp=20170323135846&) [Remove Objects and Children](/OpenSCAD_RemoveSubtree "OpenSCAD RemoveSubtree"): Removes the selected objects and all children that are not referenced by other objects.
  * [![](/images/5/54/OpenSCAD_RefineShapeFeature.svg)](/index.php?title=File:OpenSCAD_RefineShapeFeature.svg&filetimestamp=20170323135943&) [Refine Shape Feature](/OpenSCAD_RefineShapeFeature "OpenSCAD RefineShapeFeature"): Creates a refined shape.
  * [![](/images/b/b1/OpenSCAD_MirrorMeshFeature.svg)](/index.php?title=File:OpenSCAD_MirrorMeshFeature.svg&filetimestamp=20210130224001&) [Mirror Mesh Feature](/OpenSCAD_MirrorMeshFeature "OpenSCAD MirrorMeshFeature"): Mirrors the mesh.
  * [![](/images/f/f5/OpenSCAD_ScaleMeshFeature.svg)](/index.php?title=File:OpenSCAD_ScaleMeshFeature.svg&filetimestamp=20210130224037&) [Scale Mesh Feature](/OpenSCAD_ScaleMeshFeature "OpenSCAD ScaleMeshFeature"): Scales the mesh.
  * [![](/images/b/b4/OpenSCAD_ResizeMeshFeature.svg)](/index.php?title=File:OpenSCAD_ResizeMeshFeature.svg&filetimestamp=20210211165455&) [Resize Mesh Feature](/OpenSCAD_ResizeMeshFeature "OpenSCAD ResizeMeshFeature"): Resizes the mesh.
  * [![](/images/d/d9/OpenSCAD_IncreaseToleranceFeature.svg)](/index.php?title=File:OpenSCAD_IncreaseToleranceFeature.svg&filetimestamp=20170323140147&) [Increase Tolerance Feature](/OpenSCAD_IncreaseToleranceFeature "OpenSCAD IncreaseToleranceFeature"): Creates a feature to increase the tolerance.
  * [![](/images/8/84/OpenSCAD_Edgestofaces.svg)](/index.php?title=File:OpenSCAD_Edgestofaces.svg&filetimestamp=20210211165249&) [Convert Edges to Faces](/OpenSCAD_Edgestofaces "OpenSCAD Edgestofaces"): Converts edges to faces.
  * [![](/images/9/9f/OpenSCAD_ExpandPlacements.svg)](/index.php?title=File:OpenSCAD_ExpandPlacements.svg&filetimestamp=20210211165317&) [Expand Placements](/OpenSCAD_ExpandPlacements "OpenSCAD ExpandPlacements"): Expands all placements downwards in the Tree View.
  * [![](/images/6/68/OpenSCAD_ExplodeGroup.svg)](/index.php?title=File:OpenSCAD_ExplodeGroup.svg&filetimestamp=20201127110528&) [Explode Group](/OpenSCAD_ExplodeGroup "OpenSCAD ExplodeGroup"): Explodes a fusion or compound and applies random colors.
  * [![](/images/f/f3/OpenSCAD_AddOpenSCADElement.svg)](/index.php?title=File:OpenSCAD_AddOpenSCADElement.svg&filetimestamp=20170323135742&) [Add OpenSCAD Element](/OpenSCAD_AddOpenSCADElement "OpenSCAD AddOpenSCADElement"): Adds an OpenSCAD element based on entered OpenSCAD code using the OpenSCAD binary.
  * [![](/images/d/d6/OpenSCAD_MeshBoolean.svg)](/index.php?title=File:OpenSCAD_MeshBoolean.svg&filetimestamp=20201127110549&) [Mesh Boolean](/OpenSCAD_MeshBoolean "OpenSCAD MeshBoolean"): Performs a boolean operation using the OpenSCAD binary.
  * [![](/images/7/76/OpenSCAD_Hull.svg)](/index.php?title=File:OpenSCAD_Hull.svg&filetimestamp=20170323140324&) [Hull](/OpenSCAD_Hull "OpenSCAD Hull"): Creates a hull.
  * [![](/images/f/f8/OpenSCAD_Minkowski.svg)](/index.php?title=File:OpenSCAD_Minkowski.svg&filetimestamp=20170323140417&) [Minkowski Sum](/OpenSCAD_Minkowski "OpenSCAD Minkowski"): Creates a Minkowski sum.

## Preferences

  * [![](/images/f/fa/Preferences-openscad.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Preferences-openscad.svg&filetimestamp=20171230155319&) [Preferences](/OpenSCAD_Preferences "OpenSCAD Preferences"): Preferences available for OpenSCAD.

## Limitations

OpenSCAD creates constructive solid geometry, as well as imports mesh files
and extrudes 2D geometry from [DXF](/DXF "DXF") files. FreeCAD allows you to
create CSG with primitives as well. The FreeCAD geometry kernel (OCCT) works
using a boundary representation. Therefore conversion from CSG to BREP should,
in theory, be possible whereas conversion from BREP to CSG is, in general,
not.

OpenSCAD works internally on meshes. Some operations which are useful on
meshes are not meaningful on a BREP model and can not be fully supported.
Among these are convex hull, minkowski sum, glide and subdiv. Currently we run
the OpenSCAD binary in order to perform hull and minkwoski operations and
import the result. This means that the involved geometry will be triangulated.
In OpenSCAD non-uniform scaling is often used, which does not impose any
problems when using meshes. In our geometry kernel geometric primitives
(lines, circular sections, etc) are converted to BSpline prior to performing
such deformations. Those B-splines are known to cause trouble in later boolean
operations. An automatic solution is not available at the moment. Please feel
free to post to the forum if you encounter such problems. Often such problems
can be solved be remodeling small parts. A deformation of a cylinder can
substituted by an extrusion of an ellipses.

## Importing text

Importing OpenSCAD code with texts requires that the fonts that are used are
properly installed on your system. You can verify this by opening OpenSCAD as
a standalone tool and checking the list in **Help → Font List**. The list will
also give you the correct font names. If a font does not appear in the list
after installing, you may have to manually copy the font file to the
appropriate system directory.

Importing texts is relatively slow. Behind the scenes FreeCAD uses a DXF file
created by OpenSCAD. The more contours there are the slower the import.

It can be a good idea to first import a simple test case (replace `NameOfFont`
with the correct font name):

    
    
    TESTFONT="NameOfFont";
    linear_extrude(0.001) {
      text("A", size=5, font=TESTFONT, script="Latn");
    };
    

The `script="Latn"` parameter can be left out here, but is required if the
text string does not contain any letters, but only punctuation and/or numbers.

Please note that `use <FONT>;` statements in your source files are ignored
when importing in FreeCAD. Under OpenSCAD the effect of a `use` statement is
that the provided font file is temporarily added to the list of known fonts
(although even there the statement does not work when a script is modified
interactively).

## Hints

When importing [DXF](/DXF "DXF") set the Draft precision to a sensible amount
as this will affect the detection of connected edges.

If FreeCAD crashes when importing CSG, it is strongly recommended that you
enable "Automatically check model after boolean operation" in **Menu → Edit →
Preferences → Part/Part Design → General → Model settings**.

## Tutorials

  * [Import OpenSCAD code](/Import_OpenSCAD_code "Import OpenSCAD code")

## Links

  * The official OpenSCAD project source code repository hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/openscad/openscad)
  * Open tickets tagged "OpenSCAD" on the [FreeCAD Github issue tracker](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/labels/Mod:%20OpenSCAD).
  * Models tagged with "OpenSCAD" on [Thingiverse](http://www.thingiverse.com/tag:openscad)

  

![](/images/6/6f/Arrow-left.svg) ![](/images/8/84/Workbench_Mesh.svg) [Mesh
Workbench](/Mesh_Workbench "Mesh Workbench")

![](/images/0/04/Workbench_Part.svg) [Part Workbench](/Part_Workbench "Part
Workbench") ![](/images/a/af/Arrow-right.svg)

[Index](/Online_Help_Toc "Online Help Toc")
![](/images/7/76/Online_Help_Toc.svg)

Expand[![](/images/4/4e/Workbench_OpenSCAD.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_OpenSCAD.svg&filetimestamp=20200404173116&)
OpenSCAD

  * **Tools:** [Replace Object](/OpenSCAD_ReplaceObject "OpenSCAD ReplaceObject"), [Remove Objects and Children](/OpenSCAD_RemoveSubtree "OpenSCAD RemoveSubtree"), [Refine Shape Feature](/OpenSCAD_RefineShapeFeature "OpenSCAD RefineShapeFeature"), [Mirror Mesh Feature](/OpenSCAD_MirrorMeshFeature "OpenSCAD MirrorMeshFeature"), [Scale Mesh Feature](/OpenSCAD_ScaleMeshFeature "OpenSCAD ScaleMeshFeature"), [Resize Mesh Feature](/OpenSCAD_ResizeMeshFeature "OpenSCAD ResizeMeshFeature"), [Increase Tolerance Feature](/OpenSCAD_IncreaseToleranceFeature "OpenSCAD IncreaseToleranceFeature"), [Convert Edges to Faces](/OpenSCAD_Edgestofaces "OpenSCAD Edgestofaces"), [Expand Placements](/OpenSCAD_ExpandPlacements "OpenSCAD ExpandPlacements"), [Explode Group](/OpenSCAD_ExplodeGroup "OpenSCAD ExplodeGroup"), [Add OpenSCAD Element](/OpenSCAD_AddOpenSCADElement "OpenSCAD AddOpenSCADElement"), [Mesh Boolean](/OpenSCAD_MeshBoolean "OpenSCAD MeshBoolean"), [Hull](/OpenSCAD_Hull "OpenSCAD Hull"), [Minkowski Sum](/OpenSCAD_Minkowski "OpenSCAD Minkowski")

* * *

  * **Additional:** [Preferences](/OpenSCAD_Preferences "OpenSCAD Preferences"), [Import OpenSCAD code](/Import_OpenSCAD_code "Import OpenSCAD code"), [CSG](/OpenSCAD_CSG "OpenSCAD CSG")

Expand[![](/images/thumb/9/94/User_hub.png/24px-
User_hub.png)](/index.php?title=File:User_hub.png&filetimestamp=20190221145008&)
[User documentation](/User_hub "User hub")

  * **[Getting started](/Getting_started "Getting started")**
  * **Installation:** [Download](/Download "Download"), [Windows](/Installing_on_Windows "Installing on Windows"), [Linux](/Installing_on_Linux "Installing on Linux"), [Mac](/Installing_on_Mac "Installing on Mac"), [Additional components](/Installing_additional_components "Installing additional components"), [Docker](/Compile_on_Docker "Compile on Docker"), [AppImage](/AppImage "AppImage"), [Ubuntu Snap](/Ubuntu_Snap "Ubuntu Snap")
  * **Basics:** [About FreeCAD](/About_FreeCAD "About FreeCAD"), [Interface](/Interface "Interface"), [Mouse navigation](/Mouse_navigation "Mouse navigation"), [Selection methods](/Selection_methods "Selection methods"), [Object name](/Object_name "Object name"), [Preferences](/Preferences_Editor "Preferences Editor"), [Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"), [Document structure](/Document_structure "Document structure"), [Properties](/Property "Property"), [Help FreeCAD](/Help_FreeCAD "Help FreeCAD"), [Donate](/Donate "Donate")

* * *

  * **Help:** [Tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials"), [Video tutorials](/Video_tutorials "Video tutorials")
  * **[Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"):** [Std Base](/Std_Base "Std Base"), [Assembly](/Assembly_Workbench "Assembly Workbench"), [BIM](/BIM_Workbench "BIM Workbench"), [CAM](/CAM_Workbench "CAM Workbench"), [Draft](/Draft_Workbench "Draft Workbench"), [FEM](/FEM_Workbench "FEM Workbench"), [Inspection](/Inspection_Workbench "Inspection Workbench"), [Material](/Material_Workbench "Material Workbench"), [Mesh](/Mesh_Workbench "Mesh Workbench"), OpenSCAD, [Part](/Part_Workbench "Part Workbench"), [PartDesign](/PartDesign_Workbench "PartDesign Workbench"), [Points](/Points_Workbench "Points Workbench"), [Reverse Engineering](/Reverse_Engineering_Workbench "Reverse Engineering Workbench"), [Robot](/Robot_Workbench "Robot Workbench"), [Sketcher](/Sketcher_Workbench "Sketcher Workbench"), [Spreadsheet](/Spreadsheet_Workbench "Spreadsheet Workbench"), [Surface](/Surface_Workbench "Surface Workbench"), [TechDraw](/TechDraw_Workbench "TechDraw Workbench"), [Test Framework](/Testing "Testing")

* * *

  * **[Addons](/Addon "Addon"):** [Addon Manager](/Std_AddonMgr "Std AddonMgr"), [External workbenches](/External_workbenches "External workbenches"), [Scripting and macros](/Scripting_and_macros "Scripting and macros")

* * *

  * **Hubs:** [User hub](/User_hub "User hub"), [Power users hub](/Power_users_hub "Power users hub"), [Developer hub](/Developer_hub "Developer hub")

