---
url: https://wiki.freecad.org/PartDesign_Workbench
title: PartDesign Workbench
scraped_at: 2025-09-08 16:44:19
---

Toggle the table of contents

## Contents

move to sidebar hide

  * Beginning
  * 1 Introduction
  * 2 Tools Toggle Tools subsection
    * 2.1 Part Design Helper tools
    * 2.2 Part Design Modeling tools
      * 2.2.1 Additive tools
      * 2.2.2 Subtractive tools
      * 2.2.3 Boolean
    * 2.3 Dress-up tools
    * 2.4 Transformation tools
      * 2.4.1 Extras
    * 2.5 Context Menu items
      * 2.5.1 Items shared with the Part workbench
    * 2.6 Obsolete tools
  * 3 Preferences
  * 4 Tutorials
  * 5 Examples

# PartDesign Workbench

  * [Page](/PartDesign_Workbench "View the content page \[ctrl-option-c\]")
  * [Discussion](/index.php?title=Talk:PartDesign_Workbench&action=edit&redlink=1 "Discussion about the content page \(page does not exist\) \[ctrl-option-t\]")

English

  * [Read](/PartDesign_Workbench)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=PartDesign_Workbench&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=PartDesign_Workbench&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [Edit on GitHub](https://github.com/Reqrefusion/FreeCAD-Documentation-Project/blob/main/wiki/PartDesign_Workbench.wikitext "Edit this page on GitHub")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=PartDesign_Workbench&action=history "Past revisions of this page \[ctrl-option-h\]")

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * [Read](/PartDesign_Workbench)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=PartDesign_Workbench&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=PartDesign_Workbench&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=PartDesign_Workbench&action=history)

General

  * [What links here](/Special:WhatLinksHere/PartDesign_Workbench "A list of all wiki pages that link here \[ctrl-option-j\]")
  * [Related changes](/Special:RecentChangesLinked/PartDesign_Workbench "Recent changes in pages linked from this page \[ctrl-option-k\]")
  * [Special pages](/Special:SpecialPages "A list of all special pages \[ctrl-option-q\]")
  * [Permanent link](https://wiki.freecad.org/index.php?title=PartDesign_Workbench&oldid=1597773 "Permanent link to this revision of this page")
  * [Page information](/index.php?title=PartDesign_Workbench&action=info "More information about this page")
  * Expand all

Print/export

  * [Download as PDF](/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=PartDesign_Workbench&action=show-download-screen)
  * [Printable version](javascript:print\(\); "Printable version of this page \[ctrl-option-p\]")

From FreeCAD Documentation

[Translate this page](/Special:Translate?group=page-
PartDesign+Workbench&action=page&filter=&language=en)This is the approved
revision of this page, as well as being the most recent.

Other languages:

  * [](/index.php?title=Special:Translate&group=page-PartDesign+Workbench&language=&task=view "Start translation for this language")
  * [Bahasa Indonesia](/PartDesign_Workbench/id "PartDesign Workbench \(1% translated\)")
  * [Deutsch](/PartDesign_Workbench/de "Arbeitsbereich PartDesign \(100% translated\)")
  * English
  * [Türkçe](/PartDesign_Workbench/tr "Parça Tasarım Tezgahı \(11% translated\)")
  * [español](/PartDesign_Workbench/es "Ambiente de trabajo DiseñoPiezas \(56% translated\)")
  * [français](/PartDesign_Workbench/fr "Atelier PartDesign \(100% translated\)")
  * [hrvatski](/PartDesign_Workbench/hr "Dizajniranje dijelova Radni stol \(6% translated\)")
  * [italiano](/PartDesign_Workbench/it "Ambiente Part Design \(100% translated\)")
  * [polski](/PartDesign_Workbench/pl "Środowisko pracy Projekt Części \(100% translated\)")
  * [português](/PartDesign_Workbench/pt "Bancada de trabalho Desenho de Peças \(PartDesign\) \(1% translated\)")
  * [português do Brasil](/PartDesign_Workbench/pt-br "Bancada de trabalho PartDesign \(94% translated\)")
  * [română](/PartDesign_Workbench/ro "PartDesign Workbench/Atelierul de PartDesign \(11% translated\)")
  * [suomi](/PartDesign_Workbench/fi "PartDesign Workbench \(1% translated\)")
  * [svenska](/PartDesign_Workbench/sv "PartDesign Workbench \(1% translated\)")
  * [čeština](/PartDesign_Workbench/cs "Pracovní plocha Návrh Dílu \(1% translated\)")
  * [български](/PartDesign_Workbench/bg "PartDesign Workbench/bg \(0% translated\)")
  * [русский](/PartDesign_Workbench/ru "Верстак PartDesign \(70% translated\)")
  * [українська](/PartDesign_Workbench/uk "PartDesign Workbench \(1% translated\)")
  * [中文](/PartDesign_Workbench/zh "PartDesign Workbench/zh \(0% translated\)")
  * [中文（中国大陆）](/PartDesign_Workbench/zh-cn "零件设计工作台 \(1% translated\)")
  * [中文（臺灣）](/PartDesign_Workbench/zh-tw "零件坊 \(1% translated\)")
  * [日本語](/PartDesign_Workbench/ja "パートデザインワークベンチ \(29% translated\)")
  * [한국어](/PartDesign_Workbench/ko "부품설계 작업대 \(97% translated\)")

![](/images/6/6f/Arrow-left.svg) ![](/images/0/04/Workbench_Part.svg) [Part
Workbench](/Part_Workbench "Part Workbench")

![](/images/6/6c/Workbench_Points.svg) [Points Workbench](/Points_Workbench
"Points Workbench") ![](/images/a/af/Arrow-right.svg)

[Index](/Online_Help_Toc "Online Help Toc")
![](/images/7/76/Online_Help_Toc.svg)

[![](/images/3/39/Workbench_PartDesign.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_PartDesign.svg&filetimestamp=20240405092932&)PartDesign
workbench icon

## Introduction

The
[![](/images/3/39/Workbench_PartDesign.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_PartDesign.svg&filetimestamp=20240405092932&)
**PartDesign Workbench** provides tools for modeling solid components. It is
mostly focused on creating mechanical components that can be manufactured and
assembled into a finished product. Nevertheless, the created solids can be
used for any other purpose such as [BIM modeling](/BIM_Workbench "BIM
Workbench"), [finite element analysis](/FEM_Workbench "FEM Workbench"), or
[machining and 3D printing](/CAM_Workbench "CAM Workbench").

The PartDesign Workbench uses a feature based methodology. A component is
represented by the Body object container. The Body defines a local coordinate
system and contains the cumulative features that define the component. Most
features are based on parametric sketches and are either additive or
subtractive. For example, the [Pad tool](/PartDesign_Pad "PartDesign Pad")
adds the extruded sketch to the developing solid, the [Pocket
tool](/PartDesign_Pocket "PartDesign Pocket") subtracts the extruded sketch.
Each feature is cumulative and builds on the result of preceding features. It
is also possible to use primitives ([Cylinder](/PartDesign_AdditiveCylinder
"PartDesign AdditiveCylinder"), [Sphere](/PartDesign_AdditiveSphere
"PartDesign AdditiveSphere"), etc.) as well as solids created outside the Body
as features.

See the [feature editing](/Feature_editing "Feature editing") page for a more
complete explanation of this process, and then see [Creating a simple
component with PartDesign](/Creating_a_simple_part_with_PartDesign "Creating a
simple part with PartDesign") to get started with creating solids.

The
[![](/images/0/04/Workbench_Part.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_Part.svg&filetimestamp=20240712190040&)
[Part Workbench](/Part_Workbench "Part Workbench") provides an alternative
[constructive solid geometry](/Constructive_solid_geometry "Constructive solid
geometry") (CSG) methodology for building shapes. For a detailed discussion of
the Part Workbench versus the Part Design Workbench see [Part and Part
Design](/Part_and_PartDesign "Part and PartDesign").

[![](/images/c/cc/PartDesign_Workbench_Example.jpg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Workbench_Example.jpg&filetimestamp=20241030064210&)

## Tools

The Part Design tools are all located in the **Part Design** menu and the
PartDesign toolbar that appear when you load the Part Design workbench.

### Part Design Helper tools

  * [![](/images/1/10/PartDesign_Body.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Body.svg&filetimestamp=20191125185840&) [Create body](/PartDesign_Body "PartDesign Body"): creates a [Body](/Body "Body") object in the active document and makes it active.

  * [![](/images/6/6c/PartDesign_NewSketch.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_NewSketch.svg&filetimestamp=20240726125744&)[![](/images/3/34/Toolbar_flyout_arrow_blue_background.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Toolbar_flyout_arrow_blue_background.svg&filetimestamp=20221006081506&) Create Sketch:

    

  * [![](/images/6/6c/PartDesign_NewSketch.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_NewSketch.svg&filetimestamp=20240726125744&) [Create sketch](/PartDesign_NewSketch "PartDesign NewSketch"): creates a new sketch on a selected face or plane. If no face is selected while this tool is executed, the user is prompted to select a plane from the Tasks panel. The interface then switches to the [Sketcher Workbench](/Sketcher_Workbench "Sketcher Workbench") in sketch editing mode.

    

  * [![](/images/d/df/Sketcher_MapSketch.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Sketcher_MapSketch.svg&filetimestamp=20231231201639&) [Attach sketch](/Sketcher_MapSketch "Sketcher MapSketch"): attaches a sketch to geometry selected from the active body.

    

  * [![](/images/c/c2/Sketcher_EditSketch.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Sketcher_EditSketch.svg&filetimestamp=20231231201543&) [Edit sketch](/Sketcher_EditSketch "Sketcher EditSketch"): opens the selected sketch for editing.

  * [![](/images/d/d3/Sketcher_ValidateSketch.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Sketcher_ValidateSketch.svg&filetimestamp=20231231201854&) [Validate sketch](/Sketcher_ValidateSketch "Sketcher ValidateSketch"): verifies the tolerance of different points and adjusts them.

  * [![](/images/6/64/Part_CheckGeometry.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Part_CheckGeometry.svg&filetimestamp=20240712183246&) [Check geometry](/Part_CheckGeometry "Part CheckGeometry"): Checks the geometry of selected objects for errors.

  * [![](/images/6/67/PartDesign_ShapeBinder.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_ShapeBinder.svg&filetimestamp=20170324054939&) [Create a shape binder](/PartDesign_ShapeBinder "PartDesign ShapeBinder"): creates a shape binder referencing geometry from a single parent object.

  * [![](/images/d/d2/PartDesign_SubShapeBinder.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_SubShapeBinder.svg&filetimestamp=20191125191133&) [Create a sub-object(s) shape binder](/PartDesign_SubShapeBinder "PartDesign SubShapeBinder"): creates a shape binder referencing geometry from one or more parent objects.

  * [![](/images/2/2f/PartDesign_Clone.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Clone.svg&filetimestamp=20171227025636&) [Create a clone](/PartDesign_Clone "PartDesign Clone"): creates a clone of the selected body.

  * [![](/images/e/e5/PartDesign_Plane.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Plane.svg&filetimestamp=20170324054826&)[![](/images/3/34/Toolbar_flyout_arrow_blue_background.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Toolbar_flyout_arrow_blue_background.svg&filetimestamp=20221006081506&) Create a datum (1.0 and below):

    

  * [![](/images/e/e5/PartDesign_Plane.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Plane.svg&filetimestamp=20170324054826&) [Create a datum plane](/PartDesign_Plane "PartDesign Plane"): creates a datum plane in the active body. (1.0 and below)

    

  * [![](/images/8/8a/PartDesign_Line.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Line.svg&filetimestamp=20170324054744&) [Create a datum line](/PartDesign_Line "PartDesign Line"): creates a datum line in the active body. (1.0 and below)

    

  * [![](/images/2/27/PartDesign_Point.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Point.svg&filetimestamp=20240405093024&) [Create a datum point](/PartDesign_Point "PartDesign Point"): creates a datum point in the active body. (1.0 and below)

    

  * [![](/images/5/57/PartDesign_CoordinateSystem.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_CoordinateSystem.svg&filetimestamp=20170324054625&) [Create a local coordinate system](/PartDesign_CoordinateSystem "PartDesign CoordinateSystem"): creates a local coordinate system attached to datum geometry in the active body. (1.0 and below)

    [introduced in 1.1](/Release_notes_1.1 "Release notes 1.1"): these tools have been replaced by new [datum tools](/Std_Base#Part_Datums "Std Base").

### Part Design Modeling tools

#### Additive tools

These are tools for creating base features or adding material to an existing
body.

  * [![](/images/f/f8/PartDesign_Pad.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Pad.svg&filetimestamp=20240522201513&) [Pad](/PartDesign_Pad "PartDesign Pad"): extrudes a solid from a selected sketch.

  * [![](/images/9/94/PartDesign_Revolution.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Revolution.svg&filetimestamp=20170324054918&) [Revolution](/PartDesign_Revolution "PartDesign Revolution"): creates a solid by revolving a sketch around an axis. The sketch must form a closed profile.

  * [![](/images/2/2c/PartDesign_AdditiveLoft.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_AdditiveLoft.svg&filetimestamp=20200118062952&) [Additive loft](/PartDesign_AdditiveLoft "PartDesign AdditiveLoft"): creates a solid by making a transition between two or more sketches.

  * [![](/images/2/20/PartDesign_AdditivePipe.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_AdditivePipe.svg&filetimestamp=20200326013518&) [Additive pipe](/PartDesign_AdditivePipe "PartDesign AdditivePipe"): creates a solid by sweeping one or more sketches along an open or closed path.

  * [![](/images/9/96/PartDesign_AdditiveHelix.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_AdditiveHelix.svg&filetimestamp=20210205035955&) [Additive helix](/PartDesign_AdditiveHelix "PartDesign AdditiveHelix"): creates a solid by sweeping a sketch along a helix.

  * [![](/images/0/03/PartDesign_AdditiveBox.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_AdditiveBox.svg&filetimestamp=20191206231922&)[![](/images/3/34/Toolbar_flyout_arrow_blue_background.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Toolbar_flyout_arrow_blue_background.svg&filetimestamp=20221006081506&) Create an additive primitive:

    

  * [![](/images/0/03/PartDesign_AdditiveBox.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_AdditiveBox.svg&filetimestamp=20191206231922&) [Additive box](/PartDesign_AdditiveBox "PartDesign AdditiveBox"): creates an additive box.

    

  * [![](/images/d/d1/PartDesign_AdditiveCylinder.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_AdditiveCylinder.svg&filetimestamp=20191211225841&) [Additive cylinder](/PartDesign_AdditiveCylinder "PartDesign AdditiveCylinder"): creates an additive cylinder.

    

  * [![](/images/1/17/PartDesign_AdditiveSphere.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_AdditiveSphere.svg&filetimestamp=20191211230315&) [Additive sphere](/PartDesign_AdditiveSphere "PartDesign AdditiveSphere"): creates an additive sphere.

    

  * [![](/images/4/44/PartDesign_AdditiveCone.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_AdditiveCone.svg&filetimestamp=20191211225758&) [Additive cone](/PartDesign_AdditiveCone "PartDesign AdditiveCone"): creates an additive cone.

    

  * [![](/images/6/6f/PartDesign_AdditiveEllipsoid.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_AdditiveEllipsoid.svg&filetimestamp=20191211225913&) [Additive ellipsoid](/PartDesign_AdditiveEllipsoid "PartDesign AdditiveEllipsoid"): creates an additive ellipsoid.

    

  * [![](/images/6/62/PartDesign_AdditiveTorus.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_AdditiveTorus.svg&filetimestamp=20191211230318&) [Additive torus](/PartDesign_AdditiveTorus "PartDesign AdditiveTorus"): creates an additive torus.

    

  * [![](/images/5/56/PartDesign_AdditivePrism.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_AdditivePrism.svg&filetimestamp=20191211230050&) [Additive prism](/PartDesign_AdditivePrism "PartDesign AdditivePrism"): creates an additive prism.

    

  * [![](/images/6/6f/PartDesign_AdditiveWedge.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_AdditiveWedge.svg&filetimestamp=20191211230344&) [Additive wedge](/PartDesign_AdditiveWedge "PartDesign AdditiveWedge"): creates an additive wedge.

#### Subtractive tools

These are tools for subtracting material from an existing body.

  * [![](/images/9/93/PartDesign_Pocket.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Pocket.svg&filetimestamp=20170324053209&) [Pocket](/PartDesign_Pocket "PartDesign Pocket"): creates a pocket from a selected sketch.

  * [![](/images/2/22/PartDesign_Hole.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Hole.svg&filetimestamp=20240405093159&) [Hole](/PartDesign_Hole "PartDesign Hole"): creates a hole feature from a selected sketch. The sketch must contain one or multiple circles.

  * [![](/images/a/ac/PartDesign_Groove.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Groove.svg&filetimestamp=20170324053310&) [Groove](/PartDesign_Groove "PartDesign Groove"): creates a groove by revolving a sketch around an axis.

  * [![](/images/9/9f/PartDesign_SubtractiveLoft.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_SubtractiveLoft.svg&filetimestamp=20200917234122&) [Subtractive loft](/PartDesign_SubtractiveLoft "PartDesign SubtractiveLoft"): creates a solid shape by making a transition between two or more sketches and subtracts it from the active body.

  * [![](/images/0/0b/PartDesign_SubtractivePipe.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_SubtractivePipe.svg&filetimestamp=20200917233608&) [Subtractive pipe](/PartDesign_SubtractivePipe "PartDesign SubtractivePipe"): creates a solid shape by sweeping one or more sketches along an open or closed path and subtracts it from the active body.

  * [![](/images/1/16/PartDesign_SubtractiveHelix.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_SubtractiveHelix.svg&filetimestamp=20210205040332&) [Subtractive helix](/PartDesign_SubtractiveHelix "PartDesign SubtractiveHelix"): creates a solid shape by sweeping a sketch along a helix and subtracts it from the active body.

  * [![](/images/6/68/PartDesign_SubtractiveBox.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_SubtractiveBox.svg&filetimestamp=20191212064103&)[![](/images/3/34/Toolbar_flyout_arrow_blue_background.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Toolbar_flyout_arrow_blue_background.svg&filetimestamp=20221006081506&) Create a subtractive primitive:

    

  * [![](/images/6/68/PartDesign_SubtractiveBox.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_SubtractiveBox.svg&filetimestamp=20191212064103&) [Subtractive box](/PartDesign_SubtractiveBox "PartDesign SubtractiveBox"): adds a subtractive box to the active body.

    

  * [![](/images/2/27/PartDesign_SubtractiveCylinder.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_SubtractiveCylinder.svg&filetimestamp=20191212064220&) [Subtractive cylinder](/PartDesign_SubtractiveCylinder "PartDesign SubtractiveCylinder"): adds a subtractive cylinder to the active body.

    

  * [![](/images/b/bf/PartDesign_SubtractiveSphere.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_SubtractiveSphere.svg&filetimestamp=20191212064432&) [Subtractive sphere](/PartDesign_SubtractiveSphere "PartDesign SubtractiveSphere"): adds a subtractive sphere to the active body.

    

  * [![](/images/f/fd/PartDesign_SubtractiveCone.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_SubtractiveCone.svg&filetimestamp=20191212064139&) [Subtractive cone](/PartDesign_SubtractiveCone "PartDesign SubtractiveCone"): adds a subtractive cone to the active body.

    

  * [![](/images/a/ae/PartDesign_SubtractiveEllipsoid.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_SubtractiveEllipsoid.svg&filetimestamp=20191212064314&) [Subtractive ellipsoid](/PartDesign_SubtractiveEllipsoid "PartDesign SubtractiveEllipsoid"): adds a subtractive ellipsoid to the active body.

    

  * [![](/images/2/26/PartDesign_SubtractiveTorus.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_SubtractiveTorus.svg&filetimestamp=20191212064503&) [Subtractive torus](/PartDesign_SubtractiveTorus "PartDesign SubtractiveTorus"): adds a subtractive torus to the active body.

    

  * [![](/images/7/74/PartDesign_SubtractivePrism.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_SubtractivePrism.svg&filetimestamp=20191212064358&) [Subtractive prism](/PartDesign_SubtractivePrism "PartDesign SubtractivePrism"): adds a subtractive prism to the active body.

    

  * [![](/images/1/14/PartDesign_SubtractiveWedge.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_SubtractiveWedge.svg&filetimestamp=20191212064536&) ‎[Subtractive wedge](/PartDesign_SubtractiveWedge "PartDesign SubtractiveWedge"): adds a subtractive wedge to the active body.

#### Boolean

  * [![](/images/d/d1/PartDesign_Boolean.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Boolean.svg&filetimestamp=20170324054605&) [Boolean operation](/PartDesign_Boolean "PartDesign Boolean"): imports one or more Bodies or PartDesign Clones into the active body and applies a Boolean operation.

### Dress-up tools

These tools apply a treatment to edges or faces.

  * [![](/images/4/41/PartDesign_Fillet.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Fillet.svg&filetimestamp=20170324053340&) [Fillet](/PartDesign_Fillet "PartDesign Fillet"): fillets (rounds) edges of the active body.

  * [![](/images/e/ee/PartDesign_Chamfer.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Chamfer.svg&filetimestamp=20170324053411&) [Chamfer](/PartDesign_Chamfer "PartDesign Chamfer"): chamfers edges of the active body.

  * [![](/images/d/dc/PartDesign_Draft.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Draft.svg&filetimestamp=20170324053440&) [Draft](/PartDesign_Draft "PartDesign Draft"): applies an angular draft to selected faces of the active body.

  * [![](/images/f/fa/PartDesign_Thickness.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Thickness.svg&filetimestamp=20170324055310&) [Thickness](/PartDesign_Thickness "PartDesign Thickness"): creates a thick shell from the active body and opens selected face.

### Transformation tools

These are tools for transforming existing features.

  * [![](/images/2/21/PartDesign_Mirrored.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Mirrored.svg&filetimestamp=20170324053615&) [Mirrored](/PartDesign_Mirrored "PartDesign Mirrored"): mirrors one or more features.

  * [![](/images/f/fa/PartDesign_LinearPattern.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_LinearPattern.svg&filetimestamp=20170324053639&) [Linear Pattern](/PartDesign_LinearPattern "PartDesign LinearPattern"): creates a linear pattern of one or more features.

  * [![](/images/e/ef/PartDesign_PolarPattern.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_PolarPattern.svg&filetimestamp=20170324053715&) [Polar Pattern](/PartDesign_PolarPattern "PartDesign PolarPattern"): creates a polar pattern of one or more features.

  * [![](/images/b/b7/PartDesign_MultiTransform.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_MultiTransform.svg&filetimestamp=20170324053740&) [Create MultiTransform](/PartDesign_MultiTransform "PartDesign MultiTransform"): creates a pattern by combining any of the transformations mentioned above, as well as the [Scaled](/PartDesign_Scaled "PartDesign Scaled") transformation. 
    * [![](/images/5/51/PartDesign_Scaled.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Scaled.svg&filetimestamp=20180131171729&) [Scaled](/PartDesign_Scaled "PartDesign Scaled"): scales one or more features. This is not available as a separate transformation tool.

#### Extras

Some additional functionality found in the Part Design menu:

  * [![](/images/5/54/PartDesign_Sprocket.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Sprocket.svg&filetimestamp=20240405092958&) [Sprocket](/PartDesign_Sprocket "PartDesign Sprocket"): creates a sprocket profile that can be padded.

  * [![](/images/d/d0/PartDesign_InvoluteGear.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_InvoluteGear.svg&filetimestamp=20240405093112&) [Involute gear](/PartDesign_InvoluteGear "PartDesign InvoluteGear"): creates an involute gear profile that can be padded.

  * [![](/images/d/da/PartDesign_WizardShaft.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_WizardShaft.svg&filetimestamp=20240528082352&) [Shaft design wizard](/PartDesign_WizardShaft "PartDesign WizardShaft"): Generates a shaft from a table of values and allows to analyze forces and moments. The shaft is made with a revolved sketch that can be edited.

### Context Menu items

  * [Suppressed](/index.php?title=PartDesign_Suppressed&action=edit&redlink=1 "PartDesign Suppressed \(page does not exist\)"): checkbox to disable a specific feature without deleting it. [introduced in 1.0](/Release_notes_1.0 "Release notes 1.0")

  * [![](/images/4/41/PartDesign_MoveTip.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_MoveTip.svg&filetimestamp=20240405093058&) [Set tip](/PartDesign_MoveTip "PartDesign MoveTip"): redefines the tip, which is the feature exposed outside of the Body.

  * [![](/images/3/3a/PartDesign_MoveFeature.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_MoveFeature.svg&filetimestamp=20240405093125&) [Move object to other body](/PartDesign_MoveFeature "PartDesign MoveFeature"): moves the selected sketch, datum geometry or feature to another Body.

  * [![](/images/e/e9/PartDesign_MoveFeatureInTree.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_MoveFeatureInTree.svg&filetimestamp=20210122023739&) [Move object after other object](/PartDesign_MoveFeatureInTree "PartDesign MoveFeatureInTree"): allows reordering of the Body tree by moving the selected sketch, datum geometry or feature to another position in the list of features.

#### Items shared with the Part workbench

  * [![](/images/d/da/Std_SetAppearance.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Std_SetAppearance.svg&filetimestamp=20240411193735&) [Appearance](/Std_SetAppearance "Std SetAppearance"): determines appearance of the whole part (color transparency etc.).

  * [![](/images/c/cf/Part_ColorPerFace.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Part_ColorPerFace.svg&filetimestamp=20240413174244&) [Color per face](/Part_ColorPerFace "Part ColorPerFace"): Assigns colors to individual faces of objects.

### Obsolete tools

  * [![](/images/e/e6/PartDesign_Migrate.svg)](/index.php?title=File:PartDesign_Migrate.svg&filetimestamp=20240405093045&) [Migrate](/PartDesign_Migrate "PartDesign Migrate"): migrates files from FreeCAD versions below 0.17 to version 0.17. This tool is not available in 1.0 and above.

## Preferences

  * [![](/images/c/c9/Preferences-part_design.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Preferences-part_design.svg&filetimestamp=20240712185139&) [Preferences](/PartDesign_Preferences "PartDesign Preferences"): preferences available for PartDesign Tools.
  * [Fine tuning](/Fine-tuning "Fine-tuning"): some extra parameters to fine-tune PartDesign behavior.

## Tutorials

  * [How to use FreeCAD](http://help-freecad-jpg87.fr/), a website describing the workflow for mechanical design.
  * [Creating a simple part with PartDesign](/Creating_a_simple_part_with_PartDesign "Creating a simple part with PartDesign")
  * [Basic Part Design Tutorial 019](/Basic_Part_Design_Tutorial_019 "Basic Part Design Tutorial 019")
  * [PartDesign Bearingholder Tutorial I](/PartDesign_Bearingholder_Tutorial_I "PartDesign Bearingholder Tutorial I") (needs updating)
  * [PartDesign Bearingholder Tutorial II](/PartDesign_Bearingholder_Tutorial_II "PartDesign Bearingholder Tutorial II") (needs updating)

## Examples

For some ideas of what can be achieved with Part Design tools, have a look at:
[PartDesign examples](/PartDesign_Examples "PartDesign Examples").

![](/images/thumb/d/d7/PartDesign_ExampleSphere-02.png/80px-
PartDesign_ExampleSphere-02.png)
![](/images/thumb/b/bb/PartDesign_ExampleTorus-01.png/80px-
PartDesign_ExampleTorus-01.png)
![](/images/thumb/d/d7/PartDesign_ExamplePad-09.png/80px-
PartDesign_ExamplePad-09.png)
![](/images/thumb/3/31/PartDesign_ExampleSweep-02.png/80px-
PartDesign_ExampleSweep-02.png)
![](/images/thumb/9/9a/PartDesign_ExampleSweep-05.png/80px-
PartDesign_ExampleSweep-05.png)
![](/images/thumb/2/2f/PartDesign_ExampleSpring-04.png/80px-
PartDesign_ExampleSpring-04.png)

  

![](/images/6/6f/Arrow-left.svg) ![](/images/0/04/Workbench_Part.svg) [Part
Workbench](/Part_Workbench "Part Workbench")

![](/images/6/6c/Workbench_Points.svg) [Points Workbench](/Points_Workbench
"Points Workbench") ![](/images/a/af/Arrow-right.svg)

[Index](/Online_Help_Toc "Online Help Toc")
![](/images/7/76/Online_Help_Toc.svg)

Expand[![](/images/thumb/9/94/User_hub.png/24px-
User_hub.png)](/index.php?title=File:User_hub.png&filetimestamp=20190221145008&)
[User documentation](/User_hub "User hub")

  * **[Getting started](/Getting_started "Getting started")**
  * **Installation:** [Download](/Download "Download"), [Windows](/Installing_on_Windows "Installing on Windows"), [Linux](/Installing_on_Linux "Installing on Linux"), [Mac](/Installing_on_Mac "Installing on Mac"), [Additional components](/Installing_additional_components "Installing additional components"), [Docker](/Compile_on_Docker "Compile on Docker"), [AppImage](/AppImage "AppImage"), [Ubuntu Snap](/Ubuntu_Snap "Ubuntu Snap")
  * **Basics:** [About FreeCAD](/About_FreeCAD "About FreeCAD"), [Interface](/Interface "Interface"), [Mouse navigation](/Mouse_navigation "Mouse navigation"), [Selection methods](/Selection_methods "Selection methods"), [Object name](/Object_name "Object name"), [Preferences](/Preferences_Editor "Preferences Editor"), [Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"), [Document structure](/Document_structure "Document structure"), [Properties](/Property "Property"), [Help FreeCAD](/Help_FreeCAD "Help FreeCAD"), [Donate](/Donate "Donate")

* * *

  * **Help:** [Tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials"), [Video tutorials](/Video_tutorials "Video tutorials")
  * **[Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"):** [Std Base](/Std_Base "Std Base"), [Assembly](/Assembly_Workbench "Assembly Workbench"), [BIM](/BIM_Workbench "BIM Workbench"), [CAM](/CAM_Workbench "CAM Workbench"), [Draft](/Draft_Workbench "Draft Workbench"), [FEM](/FEM_Workbench "FEM Workbench"), [Inspection](/Inspection_Workbench "Inspection Workbench"), [Material](/Material_Workbench "Material Workbench"), [Mesh](/Mesh_Workbench "Mesh Workbench"), [OpenSCAD](/OpenSCAD_Workbench "OpenSCAD Workbench"), [Part](/Part_Workbench "Part Workbench"), PartDesign, [Points](/Points_Workbench "Points Workbench"), [Reverse Engineering](/Reverse_Engineering_Workbench "Reverse Engineering Workbench"), [Robot](/Robot_Workbench "Robot Workbench"), [Sketcher](/Sketcher_Workbench "Sketcher Workbench"), [Spreadsheet](/Spreadsheet_Workbench "Spreadsheet Workbench"), [Surface](/Surface_Workbench "Surface Workbench"), [TechDraw](/TechDraw_Workbench "TechDraw Workbench"), [Test Framework](/Testing "Testing")

* * *

  * **[Addons](/Addon "Addon"):** [Addon Manager](/Std_AddonMgr "Std AddonMgr"), [External workbenches](/External_workbenches "External workbenches"), [Scripting and macros](/Scripting_and_macros "Scripting and macros")

* * *

  * **Hubs:** [User hub](/User_hub "User hub"), [Power users hub](/Power_users_hub "Power users hub"), [Developer hub](/Developer_hub "Developer hub")

Expand[![](/images/3/39/Workbench_PartDesign.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_PartDesign.svg&filetimestamp=20240405092932&)
PartDesign

  * **Structure tools:** [Part](/Std_Part "Std Part"), [Group](/Std_Group "Std Group")
  * **Helper tools:** [Create body](/PartDesign_Body "PartDesign Body"), [Create sketch](/PartDesign_NewSketch "PartDesign NewSketch"), [Attach sketch](/Sketcher_MapSketch "Sketcher MapSketch"), [Edit sketch](/Sketcher_EditSketch "Sketcher EditSketch"), [Validate sketch](/Sketcher_ValidateSketch "Sketcher ValidateSketch"), [Check geometry](/Part_CheckGeometry "Part CheckGeometry"), [Create a shape binder](/PartDesign_ShapeBinder "PartDesign ShapeBinder"), [Create a sub-object(s) shape binder](/PartDesign_SubShapeBinder "PartDesign SubShapeBinder"), [Create a clone](/PartDesign_Clone "PartDesign Clone"), [Create a datum plane](/PartDesign_Plane "PartDesign Plane"), [Create a datum line](/PartDesign_Line "PartDesign Line"), [Create a datum point](/PartDesign_Point "PartDesign Point"), [Create a local coordinate system](/PartDesign_CoordinateSystem "PartDesign CoordinateSystem")

* * *

  * **Modeling tools:**
    * **Additive tools:** [Pad](/PartDesign_Pad "PartDesign Pad"), [Revolution](/PartDesign_Revolution "PartDesign Revolution"), [Additive loft](/PartDesign_AdditiveLoft "PartDesign AdditiveLoft"), [Additive pipe](/PartDesign_AdditivePipe "PartDesign AdditivePipe"), [Additive helix](/PartDesign_AdditiveHelix "PartDesign AdditiveHelix"), [Additive box](/PartDesign_AdditiveBox "PartDesign AdditiveBox"), [Additive cylinder](/PartDesign_AdditiveCylinder "PartDesign AdditiveCylinder"), [Additive sphere](/PartDesign_AdditiveSphere "PartDesign AdditiveSphere"), [Additive cone](/PartDesign_AdditiveCone "PartDesign AdditiveCone"), [Additive ellipsoid](/PartDesign_AdditiveEllipsoid "PartDesign AdditiveEllipsoid"), [Additive torus](/PartDesign_AdditiveTorus "PartDesign AdditiveTorus"), [Additive prism](/PartDesign_AdditivePrism "PartDesign AdditivePrism"), [Additive wedge](/PartDesign_AdditiveWedge "PartDesign AdditiveWedge")
    * **Subtractive tools:** [Pocket](/PartDesign_Pocket "PartDesign Pocket"), [Hole](/PartDesign_Hole "PartDesign Hole"), [Groove](/PartDesign_Groove "PartDesign Groove"), [Subtractive loft](/PartDesign_SubtractiveLoft "PartDesign SubtractiveLoft"), [Subtractive pipe](/PartDesign_SubtractivePipe "PartDesign SubtractivePipe"), [Subtractive helix](/PartDesign_SubtractiveHelix "PartDesign SubtractiveHelix"), [Subtractive box](/PartDesign_SubtractiveBox "PartDesign SubtractiveBox"), [Subtractive cylinder](/PartDesign_SubtractiveCylinder "PartDesign SubtractiveCylinder"), [Subtractive sphere](/PartDesign_SubtractiveSphere "PartDesign SubtractiveSphere"), [Subtractive cone](/PartDesign_SubtractiveCone "PartDesign SubtractiveCone"), [Subtractive ellipsoid](/PartDesign_SubtractiveEllipsoid "PartDesign SubtractiveEllipsoid"), [Subtractive torus](/PartDesign_SubtractiveTorus "PartDesign SubtractiveTorus"), [Subtractive prism](/PartDesign_SubtractivePrism "PartDesign SubtractivePrism"), ‎[Subtractive wedge](/PartDesign_SubtractiveWedge "PartDesign SubtractiveWedge")
    * **Boolean:** [Boolean operation](/PartDesign_Boolean "PartDesign Boolean")

* * *

  * **Dress-up tools:** [Fillet](/PartDesign_Fillet "PartDesign Fillet"), [Chamfer](/PartDesign_Chamfer "PartDesign Chamfer"), [Draft](/PartDesign_Draft "PartDesign Draft"), [Thickness](/PartDesign_Thickness "PartDesign Thickness")
  * **Transformation tools:** [Mirrored](/PartDesign_Mirrored "PartDesign Mirrored"), [Linear Pattern](/PartDesign_LinearPattern "PartDesign LinearPattern"), [Polar Pattern](/PartDesign_PolarPattern "PartDesign PolarPattern"), [Create MultiTransform](/PartDesign_MultiTransform "PartDesign MultiTransform"), [Scaled](/PartDesign_Scaled "PartDesign Scaled")

* * *

  * **Extras:** [Sprocket](/PartDesign_Sprocket "PartDesign Sprocket"), [Involute gear](/PartDesign_InvoluteGear "PartDesign InvoluteGear"), [Shaft design wizard](/PartDesign_WizardShaft "PartDesign WizardShaft")
  * **Context menu:** [Set tip](/PartDesign_MoveTip "PartDesign MoveTip"), [Move object to other body](/PartDesign_MoveFeature "PartDesign MoveFeature"), [Move object after other object](/PartDesign_MoveFeatureInTree "PartDesign MoveFeatureInTree"), [Appearance](/Std_SetAppearance "Std SetAppearance"), [Color per face](/Part_ColorPerFace "Part ColorPerFace")
  * **Preferences:** [Preferences](/PartDesign_Preferences "PartDesign Preferences"), [Fine tuning](/Fine-tuning "Fine-tuning")

