---
url: https://wiki.freecad.org/User_hub
title: User hub
scraped_at: 2025-09-08 16:43:37
---

Toggle the table of contents

## Contents

move to sidebar hide

  * Beginning
  * 1 Using FreeCAD Toggle Using FreeCAD subsection
    * 1.1 Introduction
      * 1.1.1 Migrating from other software?
    * 1.2 Basic application
    * 1.3 Workbenches
    * 1.4 Macros
    * 1.5 External workbenches
  * 2 Reference
  * 3 Online Help
  * 4 More

# User hub

  * [Page](/User_hub "View the content page \[ctrl-option-c\]")
  * [Discussion](/Talk:User_hub "Discussion about the content page \[ctrl-option-t\]")

English

  * [Read](/User_hub)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=User_hub&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=User_hub&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [Edit on GitHub](https://github.com/Reqrefusion/FreeCAD-Documentation-Project/blob/main/wiki/User_hub.wikitext "Edit this page on GitHub")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=User_hub&action=history "Past revisions of this page \[ctrl-option-h\]")

Tools

Tools

move to sidebar hide

Actions

  * [Read](/User_hub)
  * [Edit](/index.php?title=User_hub&veaction=edit "Edit this page \[ctrl-option-v\]")
  * [Edit source](/index.php?title=User_hub&action=edit "Edit the source code of this page \[ctrl-option-e\]")
  * [View history](/index.php?title=User_hub&action=history)

General

  * [What links here](/Special:WhatLinksHere/User_hub "A list of all wiki pages that link here \[ctrl-option-j\]")
  * [Related changes](/Special:RecentChangesLinked/User_hub "Recent changes in pages linked from this page \[ctrl-option-k\]")
  * [Special pages](/Special:SpecialPages "A list of all special pages \[ctrl-option-q\]")
  * [Permanent link](https://wiki.freecad.org/index.php?title=User_hub&oldid=1633975 "Permanent link to this revision of this page")
  * [Page information](/index.php?title=User_hub&action=info "More information about this page")
  * Expand all

Print/export

  * [Download as PDF](/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=User_hub&action=show-download-screen)
  * [Printable version](javascript:print\(\); "Printable version of this page \[ctrl-option-p\]")

From FreeCAD Documentation

[Translate this page](/Special:Translate?group=page-
User+hub&action=page&filter=&language=en)This is the approved revision of this
page, as well as being the most recent.

Other languages:

  * [](/index.php?title=Special:Translate&group=page-User+hub&language=&task=view "Start translation for this language")
  * [Bahasa Indonesia](/User_hub/id "User hub \(2% translated\)")
  * [Deutsch](/User_hub/de "Anwenderzentrum \(100% translated\)")
  * English
  * [Türkçe](/User_hub/tr "Kullanıcı Merkezi \(24% translated\)")
  * [español](/User_hub/es "Centro de usuarios \(94% translated\)")
  * [français](/User_hub/fr "Documentation pour les utilisateurs \(100% translated\)")
  * [hrvatski](/User_hub/hr "Korisničko okruženje \(22% translated\)")
  * [italiano](/User_hub/it "Hub degli utenti \(100% translated\)")
  * [magyar](/User_hub/hu "User hub \(2% translated\)")
  * [polski](/User_hub/pl "Centrum użytkownika. \(100% translated\)")
  * [português](/User_hub/pt "User hub/pt \(12% translated\)")
  * [português do Brasil](/User_hub/pt-br "Central do Usuário \(92% translated\)")
  * [română](/User_hub/ro "User hub \(14% translated\)")
  * [suomi](/User_hub/fi "User hub \(4% translated\)")
  * [svenska](/User_hub/sv "User hub \(10% translated\)")
  * [čeština](/User_hub/cs "Uživatelské centrum \(8% translated\)")
  * [български](/User_hub/bg "Помощ За Нови Потребители \(10% translated\)")
  * [русский](/User_hub/ru "Центр пользователей \(96% translated\)")
  * [українська](/User_hub/uk "User hub \(2% translated\)")
  * [中文](/User_hub/zh "User hub \(2% translated\)")
  * [中文（中国大陆）](/User_hub/zh-cn "用户入口 \(86% translated\)")
  * [中文（繁體）](/User_hub/zh-hant "User hub \(2% translated\)")
  * [中文（臺灣）](/User_hub/zh-tw "使用者中心 \(2% translated\)")
  * [日本語](/User_hub/ja "ユーザー向けハブ \(78% translated\)")
  * [한국어](/User_hub/ko "사용자 도움말 종합 안내 \(94% translated\)")

[![](/images/9/94/User_hub.png)](/index.php?title=File:User_hub.png&filetimestamp=20190221145008&)

* * *

This is the main help area for newcomers to FreeCAD.

FreeCAD is in continuous development, so there may be missing or outdated
information. If you cannot find the information that you need, don't hesitate
to ask in the [FreeCAD forum](https://forum.freecad.org).

If you'd like to contribute to FreeCAD, please [donate](/Donate "Donate"), and
see the [Help FreeCAD](/Help_FreeCAD "Help FreeCAD") page for other ways to
contribute. If you'd like to edit this wiki read the [WikiPages](/WikiPages
"WikiPages") for the general guidelines that you should follow.

If you would like to know how FreeCAD started years ago visit the
[History](/History "History") page.

## Using FreeCAD

### Introduction

  * [Application Overview](/About_FreeCAD "About FreeCAD"): A general overview of FreeCAD
  * Installing: How to install FreeCAD on [Windows](/Installing_on_Windows "Installing on Windows"), [Linux](/Installing_on_Linux "Installing on Linux") and [Mac](/Installing_on_Mac "Installing on Mac")
  * [Installing additional components](/Installing_additional_components "Installing additional components"): How to install additional third-party components that can work together with FreeCAD.
  * [Getting started](/Getting_started "Getting started"): A quick overview of the available tools
  * [FAQ](/Frequently_asked_questions "Frequently asked questions"): Frequently asked questions
  * [Tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials") covering different parts of FreeCAD

#### Migrating from other software?

  * [Workarounds](/Workarounds "Workarounds")
  * [Migrating to FreeCAD from Fusion360](/Migrating_to_FreeCAD_from_Fusion360 "Migrating to FreeCAD from Fusion360")
  * [Migrating to FreeCAD from OnShape](/Migrating_to_FreeCAD_from_OnShape "Migrating to FreeCAD from OnShape")
  * [Migrating to FreeCAD from SolidWorks](/Migrating_to_FreeCAD_from_SolidWorks "Migrating to FreeCAD from SolidWorks")
  * [Migrating to FreeCAD from Revit](/Migrating_to_FreeCAD_from_Revit "Migrating to FreeCAD from Revit")
  * [FreeCAD BIM migration guide](https://yorik.uncreated.net/blog/2020-010-freecad-bim-guide)
  * [BIM applications compatibility table](/BIM_application_compatibility_table "BIM application compatibility table")

### Basic application

  * [Interface](/Interface "Interface"): the FreeCAD interface is composed of various graphical elements on the screen, including the [3D view](/3D_view "3D view"), the [tree view](/Tree_view "Tree view"), the [property editor](/Property_editor "Property editor"), the [task panel](/Task_panel "Task panel"), and the [Python console](/Python_console "Python console").
  * [Mouse navigation](/Mouse_navigation "Mouse navigation"): the different types of using the mouse or trackpad to navigate in the 3D view.
  * [Selection methods](/Selection_methods "Selection methods"): the different methods of selecting objects in the software.
  * [Objects naming](/Object_name "Object name"): FreeCAD objects have a read-only `Name` that uniquely identifies them, and a `Label` which is user editable.
  * [Preferences Editor](/Preferences_Editor "Preferences Editor"): the system that allows you to control many properties of the base system and of the individual workbenches.
  * [File formats](/Import_Export "Import Export"): the different file formats that FreeCAD can read and write.

### Workbenches

[Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches") are collections of tools used for
specific tasks. These are the base workbenches bundled with every FreeCAD
installation:

  * [![](/images/0/06/Freecad.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Freecad.svg&filetimestamp=20240704193018&) [Standard tools](/Std_Base "Std Base"). These commands and tools are present in all workbenches.

  * [![](/images/c/cd/Workbench_Assembly.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_Assembly.svg&filetimestamp=20240325203121&) The [Assembly Workbench](/Assembly_Workbench "Assembly Workbench") for building and solving mechanical assemblies. [introduced in 1.0](/Release_notes_1.0 "Release notes 1.0")

  * [![](/images/0/05/Workbench_BIM.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_BIM.svg&filetimestamp=20240524155736&) The [BIM Workbench](/BIM_Workbench "BIM Workbench") for working with architectural elements and creating [BIM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Building_information_modeling) models. It combines the Arch Workbench and the formerly external BIM Workbench available in 0.21 and below.

  * [![](/images/9/95/Workbench_CAM.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_CAM.svg&filetimestamp=20240316105021&) The [CAM Workbench](/CAM_Workbench "CAM Workbench") is used to produce G-Code instructions. This workbench was called "Path Workbench" in 0.21 and below.

  * [![](/images/9/91/Workbench_Draft.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_Draft.svg&filetimestamp=20200404172706&) The [Draft Workbench](/Draft_Workbench "Draft Workbench") contains 2D tools and basic 2D and 3D CAD operations.

  * [![](/images/8/87/Workbench_FEM.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_FEM.svg&filetimestamp=20240405093343&) The [FEM Workbench](/FEM_Workbench "FEM Workbench") provides Finite Element Analysis (FEA) workflow.

  * [![](/images/f/f8/Workbench_Inspection.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_Inspection.svg&filetimestamp=20200404172947&) The [Inspection Workbench](/Inspection_Workbench "Inspection Workbench") is made to give you specific tools for examination of shapes. Still in the early stages of development.

  * [![](/images/e/e2/Workbench_Material.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_Material.svg&filetimestamp=20240623140009&) The [Material Workbench](/Material_Workbench "Material Workbench") handles the FreeCAD material system. [introduced in 1.0](/Release_notes_1.0 "Release notes 1.0")

  * [![](/images/8/84/Workbench_Mesh.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_Mesh.svg&filetimestamp=20200404173024&) The [Mesh Workbench](/Mesh_Workbench "Mesh Workbench") for working with triangulated meshes.

  * [![](/images/4/4e/Workbench_OpenSCAD.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_OpenSCAD.svg&filetimestamp=20200404173116&) The [OpenSCAD Workbench](/OpenSCAD_Workbench "OpenSCAD Workbench") for interoperability with OpenSCAD and repairing [constructive solid geometry](/Constructive_solid_geometry "Constructive solid geometry") (CSG) model history.

  * [![](/images/0/04/Workbench_Part.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_Part.svg&filetimestamp=20240712190040&) The [Part Workbench](/Part_Workbench "Part Workbench") for working with geometric primitives and boolean operations.

  * [![](/images/3/39/Workbench_PartDesign.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_PartDesign.svg&filetimestamp=20240405092932&) The [PartDesign Workbench](/PartDesign_Workbench "PartDesign Workbench") for building Part shapes from sketches.

  * [![](/images/6/6c/Workbench_Points.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_Points.svg&filetimestamp=20200404174800&) The [Points Workbench](/Points_Workbench "Points Workbench") for working with point clouds.

  * [![](/images/8/83/Workbench_Reverse_Engineering.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_Reverse_Engineering.svg&filetimestamp=20200404173756&) The [Reverse Engineering Workbench](/Reverse_Engineering_Workbench "Reverse Engineering Workbench") is intended to provide specific tools to convert shapes/solids/meshes into parametric FreeCAD-compatible features.

  * [![](/images/e/e3/Workbench_Robot.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_Robot.svg&filetimestamp=20200404173908&) The [Robot Workbench](/Robot_Workbench "Robot Workbench") for studying robot movements. Currently unmaintained.

  * [![](/images/9/91/Workbench_Sketcher.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_Sketcher.svg&filetimestamp=20231231194727&) The [Sketcher Workbench](/Sketcher_Workbench "Sketcher Workbench") for working with geometry-constrained sketches.

  * [![](/images/b/be/Workbench_Spreadsheet.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_Spreadsheet.svg&filetimestamp=20240527155805&) The [Spreadsheet Workbench](/Spreadsheet_Workbench "Spreadsheet Workbench") for creating and manipulating spreadsheet data.

  * [![](/images/b/bf/Workbench_Surface.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_Surface.svg&filetimestamp=20210130230011&) The [Surface Workbench](/Surface_Workbench "Surface Workbench") provides tools to create and modify surfaces. It is similar to the [Part Builder](/Part_Builder "Part Builder") Face from edges option.

  * [![](/images/b/b6/Workbench_TechDraw.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_TechDraw.svg&filetimestamp=20240713144548&) The [TechDraw Workbench](/TechDraw_Workbench "TechDraw Workbench") for producing technical drawings from 3D models.

  * [![](/images/b/bf/Workbench_Test.svg)](/index.php?title=File:Workbench_Test.svg&filetimestamp=20200404174253&) The [Test Framework Workbench](/Testing "Testing") is for debugging FreeCAD.

### Macros

[Macros](/Macros "Macros") are relatively small snippets of [Python](/Python
"Python") code that perform a simple or a complex task that is not available
in the base FreeCAD system.

Power users have written various [macros](/Macros "Macros") to enhance FreeCAD
with more capabilities.

Since FreeCAD 0.17, many macros can be installed using the [Addon
Manager](/Std_AddonMgr "Std AddonMgr"). For a list of the macros refer to the
[Macros recipes](/Macros_recipes "Macros recipes") page. For manual
installation see [How to install macros](/How_to_install_macros "How to
install macros").

### External workbenches

When many macros or functions are developed together, and are organized in
toolbars and menus, they can become a new workbench.

[External workbenches](/External_workbenches "External workbenches") are
collections of functions that are not part of the base FreeCAD system, usually
developed by experienced users, and targeting a particular need.

Since FreeCAD 0.17, many workbenches can be installed using the [Addon
Manager](/Std_AddonMgr "Std AddonMgr"). For manual installation see [How to
install additional workbenches](/How_to_install_additional_workbenches "How to
install additional workbenches").

## Reference

  * [Commands Reference](/List_of_Commands "List of Commands"): A complete list of the available FreeCAD commands.

## Online Help

This is the official FreeCAD online help. Please note that the whole online
help system is currently being reworked. It will be used to generate a .CHM
file, that will be distributed with the binary packages of FreeCAD. At the
moment the online help summarizes some of the most complete sections of this
wiki.

  * [Online help system - Table of Contents](/Online_Help_Toc "Online Help Toc")

## More

  * The [Power users hub](/Power_users_hub "Power users hub") is the place to go if you would like to see more advanced use of FreeCAD.
  * The [FreeCAD Community Portal](/FreeCAD_Community_Portal "FreeCAD Community Portal") lists projects made by community members around FreeCAD.
  * Don't understand a term or phrase as used in FreeCAD? Try the [Glossary](/Glossary "Glossary") page.

  

Expand[![](/images/thumb/9/94/User_hub.png/24px-
User_hub.png)](/index.php?title=File:User_hub.png&filetimestamp=20190221145008&)
User documentation

  * **[Getting started](/Getting_started "Getting started")**
  * **Installation:** [Download](/Download "Download"), [Windows](/Installing_on_Windows "Installing on Windows"), [Linux](/Installing_on_Linux "Installing on Linux"), [Mac](/Installing_on_Mac "Installing on Mac"), [Additional components](/Installing_additional_components "Installing additional components"), [Docker](/Compile_on_Docker "Compile on Docker"), [AppImage](/AppImage "AppImage"), [Ubuntu Snap](/Ubuntu_Snap "Ubuntu Snap")
  * **Basics:** [About FreeCAD](/About_FreeCAD "About FreeCAD"), [Interface](/Interface "Interface"), [Mouse navigation](/Mouse_navigation "Mouse navigation"), [Selection methods](/Selection_methods "Selection methods"), [Object name](/Object_name "Object name"), [Preferences](/Preferences_Editor "Preferences Editor"), [Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"), [Document structure](/Document_structure "Document structure"), [Properties](/Property "Property"), [Help FreeCAD](/Help_FreeCAD "Help FreeCAD"), [Donate](/Donate "Donate")

* * *

  * **Help:** [Tutorials](/Tutorials "Tutorials"), [Video tutorials](/Video_tutorials "Video tutorials")
  * **[Workbenches](/Workbenches "Workbenches"):** [Std Base](/Std_Base "Std Base"), [Assembly](/Assembly_Workbench "Assembly Workbench"), [BIM](/BIM_Workbench "BIM Workbench"), [CAM](/CAM_Workbench "CAM Workbench"), [Draft](/Draft_Workbench "Draft Workbench"), [FEM](/FEM_Workbench "FEM Workbench"), [Inspection](/Inspection_Workbench "Inspection Workbench"), [Material](/Material_Workbench "Material Workbench"), [Mesh](/Mesh_Workbench "Mesh Workbench"), [OpenSCAD](/OpenSCAD_Workbench "OpenSCAD Workbench"), [Part](/Part_Workbench "Part Workbench"), [PartDesign](/PartDesign_Workbench "PartDesign Workbench"), [Points](/Points_Workbench "Points Workbench"), [Reverse Engineering](/Reverse_Engineering_Workbench "Reverse Engineering Workbench"), [Robot](/Robot_Workbench "Robot Workbench"), [Sketcher](/Sketcher_Workbench "Sketcher Workbench"), [Spreadsheet](/Spreadsheet_Workbench "Spreadsheet Workbench"), [Surface](/Surface_Workbench "Surface Workbench"), [TechDraw](/TechDraw_Workbench "TechDraw Workbench"), [Test Framework](/Testing "Testing")

* * *

  * **[Addons](/Addon "Addon"):** [Addon Manager](/Std_AddonMgr "Std AddonMgr"), [External workbenches](/External_workbenches "External workbenches"), [Scripting and macros](/Scripting_and_macros "Scripting and macros")

* * *

  * **Hubs:** User hub, [Power users hub](/Power_users_hub "Power users hub"), [Developer hub](/Developer_hub "Developer hub")

