---
url: https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/extending-the-gui/
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T15:41:38.123947
title: Untitled
---

[RhinoDeveloper®](/)

[design, model, present, analyze, realize...](/)

[![Rhino Logo](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/rhinodevlogo.png)](/)

__

[Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides)
[Samples](https://developer.rhino3d.com/samples)
[API](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api)
[Videos](https://developer.rhino3d.com/videos)
[Community](https://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rhino-developer) [my account
](https://www.rhino3d.com/my-account/ "Manage your account, licenses, and
teams")

[Extending the
GUI](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/extending-the-gui/)

  * Default Functionality and GUI
  * Menus
  * Interaction
  * Display
  * Related Topics

[Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/en/guides/) / [Grasshopper
Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/en/guides/grasshopper/) /

Extending the GUI

by [David Rutten](https://discourse.mcneel.com/u/davidrutten/) (Last updated:
Wednesday, December 5, 2018)

We’ll focus on components as you should be familiar with those from earlier
topics, but the same logic also applies to Parameters and custom objects.

## Default Functionality and GUI

When you derive a class from
[GH_Component](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api/grasshopper/html/T_Grasshopper_Kernel_GH_Component.htm)
or
[GH_Param(T)](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api/grasshopper/html/T_Grasshopper_Kernel_GH_Param_1.htm)
you get a lot of functionality and GUI for free. It is quite important that
all the objects in Grasshopper behave in a consistent and predictable fashion
so you typically don’t need to override this default behaviour. However there
can be cases where changing the default Grasshopper GUI is the best solution.
Overriding the GUI is not exactly a trivial task, there are a lot of different
facets to this and I’ll discuss the most important ones in this topic.

There are three common ways in which the default GUI can be altered:

  * [Menus](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/extending-the-gui/#menus)
  * [Interaction](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/extending-the-gui/#interaction)
  * [Display](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/extending-the-gui/#display)

## Menus

It is possible to insert items into the default pop-up menus of objects, or
even to completely alter the menu layout. If your component for example can
run in two different modes, you can choose to expose an additional GUI option
instead of an input parameter. These modes can then be toggled via the
component pop-up menu.

At the lowest level, pop-up menus are generated by the canvas when a right
mouse button click is detected over a component or parameter. The menu by
default contains no items and it is the responsibility of said component or
parameter to populate the menu. The top-level method which is in charge of
this is
[AppendMenuItems](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api/grasshopper/html/M_Grasshopper_Kernel_IGH_DocumentObject_AppendMenuItems.htm)
which is defined inside `IGH_DocumentObject` and thus propagates to all
objects on the canvas.

The `GH_DocumentObject` abstract class does not create any menu items, so
unless this function is overridden, there will be no popup menu for a certain
object. However, it is unlikely you derive directly from `GH_DocumentObject`
so this should not be a problem. `GH_ActiveObject`, which is the base class
for all objects on the canvas that actually do something (Sketches and
Scribbles don’t “do” anything, hence they derive directly from
`GH_DocumentObject`), does provide a default implementation of
`AppendMenuItems()`. The default layout of popup menus is:

  * NickName
  * Preview
  * Enabled
  * Bake
  * Warnings
  * Errors
  * Help

Although if the object in question does not support previews or baking then
those items will be missing from the final menu. When overridden,
`AppendMenuItems()` allows you to completely replace the default menu:

C# VB.NET

    
    
    public override bool AppendMenuItems(ToolStripDropDown menu)
    {
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "First item");
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Second item");
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Third item");
      Menu_AppendSeparator(menu);
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Fourth item");
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Fifth item");
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Sixth item");
    
      // Return true, otherwise the menu won't be shown.
      return true;
    }
    
    
    
    Public Overrides Function AppendMenuItems(ByVal menu As ToolStripDropDown) As Boolean
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "First item")
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Second item")
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Third item")
      Menu_AppendSeparator(menu)
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Fourth item")
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Fifth item")
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Sixth item")
    
      'Return True, otherwise the menu won't be shown.
      Return True
    End Function
    

![AppendMenuItems](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/extending-the-
gui-01.png)

If you want to insert additional items into the menu it would be very annoying
if you had to recreate this default menu layout from scratch every single
time. So even though you can override `AppendMenuItems()` it is recommended
you instead override `AppendAdditionalMenuItems()` which allows you to insert
custom menu items between Errors and Help without losing the standard
functionality:

C# VB.NET

    
    
    public override void AppendAdditionalMenuItems(ToolStripDropDown menu)
    {
      base.AppendAdditionalMenuItems(menu);
    
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "First item");
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Second item");
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Third item");
      Menu_AppendSeparator(menu);
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Fourth item");
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Fifth item");
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Sixth item");
    }
    
    
    
    Public Overrides Sub AppendAdditionalMenuItems(ByVal menu As ToolStripDropDown)
      MyBase.AppendAdditionalMenuItems(menu)
    
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "First item")
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Second item")
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Third item")
      Menu_AppendSeparator(menu)
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Fourth item")
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Fifth item")
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "Sixth item")
    End Sub
    

![AppendAdditionalMenuItems](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/extending-
the-gui-02.png)

`GH_Param<T>` for example derives from `GH_ActiveObject` and re-implements
`AppendAdditionalMenuItems()` in order to supply the Wire Display, Disconnect,
Reverse, Flatten and Graft menu items that are present in all parameters.
`GH_Component`, likewise, derives from `GH_ActiveObject` and it re-implements
`AppendAdditionalMenuItems()` in order to insert the Shortest List, Longest
List, Cross Reference and the parameter submenus.

Long story short; if you wish to insert additional menu items then either re-
implement `AppendAdditionalMenuItems()` if you derive from `GH_Param<T>` or
re-implement `AppendAdditionalComponentMenuItems()` if you derive from
`GH_Component`:

C# VB.NET

    
    
    // If you implement IGH_Param, then override this method. If you implement IGH_Component,
    // then override AppendAdditionalComponentMenuItems instead.
    protected override void AppendAdditionalMenuItems(ToolstripDropDown menu)
    {  
      // Place a call to the base class to ensure the default parameter menu
      // is still there and operational.
      base.AppendAdditinalMenuItems(menu);
    
      // Now insert your own custom menu items.
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "My Custom Menu Item", Menu_MyCustomItemClicked);
    }
    
    private void Menu_MyCustomItemClicked(Object sender, EventArgs e)
    {
      Rhino.RhinoApp.WriteLine("Alcohol doesn't affect me...");
    }
    
    
    
    'If you implement IGH_Param, then override this method. If you implement IGH_Component,
    'then override AppendAdditionalComponentMenuItems instead.
    Protected Overrides Sub AppendAdditionalMenuItems(ByVal menu As ToolstripDropDown)
      'Place a call to the base class to ensure the default parameter menu
      'is still there and operational.
      MyBase.AppendAdditinalMenuItems(menu)
    
      'Now insert your own custom menu items.
      Menu_AppendGenericMenuItem(menu, "My Custom Menu Item", Addressof Menu_MyCustomItemClicked)
    End Sub
    
    Private Sub Menu_MyCustomItemClicked(ByVal sender As Object, ByVal e As EventArgs)
      Rhino.RhinoApp.WriteLine("Alcohol doesn't affect me...")
    End Sub
    

There’s a lot of menu utility functions provided by `GH_DocumentObject`. They
all start with “Menu_” and they’ll make it much easier to insert formatted
menu items. But of course nothing is stopping you from using typical
`System.Windows.Forms` plumbing to extend the pop-up menu.

## Interaction

You can also choose to handle specific mouse and keyboard events. You could
for example choose to respond to a mouse double-click event on your component.
Complicated objects such as Gradients and Graph Mappers handle all sorts of
mouse events to provide grip-dragging functionality directly within the
Grasshopper canvas.

## Display

Finally, it is possible to override the way an object displays itself on the
canvas. These alterations can be minor, mere additions to the default display,
or they can be radically different (as with the Gradient and Graph Mapper
objects). For a detailed explanation regarding display overrides, see the
[Custom Attributes](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/custom-
attributes/) guide.

## Related Topics

  * [Custom Attributes](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/custom-attributes/)

Edit this page

[ Edit on
GitHub](https://github.com/mcneel/developer.rhino3d.com/edit/master/content/en/guides/grasshopper/extending-
the-gui/index.md) [
History](https://github.com/mcneel/developer.rhino3d.com/commits/master/content/en/guides/grasshopper/extending-
the-gui/index.md) [ Admin](https://developer.rhino3d.com/admin)

[Find a Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Shop online](https://www.rhino3d.com/store) or find a
[Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Find a Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Privacy Policy](https://www.rhino3d.com/privacy) •
[About](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/about) • [Contact
Us](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/contact) • [
Language](https://www.rhino3d.com/language "Change to a different region or
language")

[Copyright © 1993-2025 Robert McNeel & Associates. All Rights
Reserved.](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/about)

[](https://www.facebook.com/McNeelRhinoceros/)
[](https://twitter.com/bobmcneel) [](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/75313/)
[](https://www.youtube.com/user/RhinoGuide/videos) [](https://vimeo.com/rhino)
[![Blogger
icon](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/blogger.svg)](http://blog.rhino3d.com/)
[![Food4Rhino](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/f4r_icon_01.svg)](https://www.food4rhino.com)

