---
url: https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-data-structures/
scraped_at: 2025-09-08T15:40:48.761146
title: Untitled
---

[RhinoDeveloper®](/)

[design, model, present, analyze, realize...](/)

[![Rhino Logo](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/rhinodevlogo.png)](/)

__

[Guides](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides)
[Samples](https://developer.rhino3d.com/samples)
[API](https://developer.rhino3d.com/api)
[Videos](https://developer.rhino3d.com/videos)
[Community](https://discourse.mcneel.com/c/rhino-developer) [my account
](https://www.rhino3d.com/my-account/ "Manage your account, licenses, and
teams")

Essential Algorithms and Data Structures for Grasshopper

Introduces the fundementals of algorithmic design and data structures using
Grasshopper.

  
__[ Introduction video](https://vimeo.com/showcase/11456959/video/1030213652)
![Essential Algorithms and Data Structures](ads-cover2nd.png)

The Essential Algorithms and Data Structures guide introduces to design
professionals effective methodologies to develop complex 3D modeling
algorithms using [Grasshopper® (GH)](https://www.grasshopper3d.com), the
generative modeling environment for [Rhinoceros®
(Rhino)](https://www.rhino3d.com). It also covers extensively the data
structure adopted by Grasshopper and its core organization and management
tools.

The material is directed towards designers who are interested in parametric
design and have little or no background in programming. All concepts are
explained visually using Grasshopper. This guide assumes prior knowledge in
Grasshopper user interface and basic workflows. For resources on getting
started with Grasshopper, please go through the [Grasshopper: Getting
Started](https://vimeopro.com/rhino/grasshopper-getting-started-by-david-
rutten) tutorials and check the [Grasshopper resources
page](https://www.rhino3d.com/learn/?query=kind:%20grasshopper&modal=null) for
additional learning material.

The content is divided into three chapters. [Chapter
1](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-data-
structures/algorithms-data/) discusses algorithms and data. It introduces a
rigorous methodology to help create and manage parametric solutions. It also
introduces basic data concepts such as data types, sources and common ways to
process them. [Chapter 2](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/data-structures/) reviews basic data structures
in Grasshopper. That includes single items and lists. [Chapter
3](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-data-
structures/advanced-data-structures/) includes an in-depth review of the tree
data structure in Grasshopper and practical applications in design problems.
All Grasshopper examples and tutorials are written with Rhinoceros version 6
and are included in the download.

_**[Rajaa Issa](https://discourse.mcneel.com/u/rajaa/activity)**_  
_Robert McNeel & Associates_

  

#### Resources:

  * [__](https://www.rhino3d.com/download/rhino/6.0/essential-algorithms) [Download the guide PDF and all Grasshopper examples](https://www.rhino3d.com/download/rhino/6.0/essential-algorithms)
  * [__](https://vimeo.com/showcase/11456959)[Link to the guide video recordings](https://vimeo.com/showcase/11456959)
  * New to Grasshopper? Start here: __Grasshopper Getting Started   
  

### Table of Contents

### 1\. [Algorithms and
Data](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-data-
structures/algorithms-data/)

1.1 [Algorithmic design](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/algorithms-data/#11-algorithmic-design)  
1.2 [Algorithms parts](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/algorithms-data/#12-algorithms-parts)  
1.3 [Designing algorithms: the 4-step
process](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-
data-structures/algorithms-data/#13-designing-algorithms-the-4-step-process)  
1.4 [Data](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-
data-structures/algorithms-data/#14-data)  
1.5 [Data sources](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/algorithms-data/#15-data-sources)  
1.6 [Data types](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/algorithms-data/#16-data-types)  
1.7 [Processing Data](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/algorithms-data/#17-processing-data)  
1.7.1 [Numeric
operations](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-
and-data-structures/algorithms-data/#171-numeric-operations)  
1.7.2 [Logical
operations](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-
and-data-structures/algorithms-data/#172-logical-operations)  
1.7.3 [Data analysis](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/algorithms-data/#173-data-analysis)  
1.7.4 [Sorting](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/algorithms-data/#174-sorting)  
1.7.5 [Selection](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/algorithms-data/#175-selection)  
1.7.6 [Mapping](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/algorithms-data/#176-mapping)  
1.8 [Pitfalls of algorithmic
design](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-
data-structures/algorithms-data/#18-pitfalls-of-algorithmic-design)  
1.8.1 [Invalid or wrong input
type](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-data-
structures/algorithms-data/#181-invalid-or-wrong-input-type)  
1.8.2 [Unintended input](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/algorithms-data/#182-unintended-input)  
1.8.3 [Incorrect order of
operation](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-
data-structures/algorithms-data/#183-incorrect-order-of-operation)  
1.8.4 [Mismatched data
structures](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-
and-data-structures/algorithms-data/#184-mismatched-data-structures)  
1.8.5 [Long processing
time](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-data-
structures/algorithms-data/#185-long-processing-time)  
1.8.6 [Poor organization](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/algorithms-data/#186-poor-organization)  
1.9 [Tutorials: algorithms and
data](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-data-
structures/algorithms-data/#19-tutorials-algorithms-and-data)

### 2\. [Introduction to Data
Structures](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-
and-data-structures/data-structures/)

2.1 [Overview](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-
and-data-structures/data-structures/#21-overview)  
2.2 [Generating lists](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/data-structures/#22-generating-lists)  
2.3 [List operations](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/data-structures/#23-list-operations)  
2.4 [List matching](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/data-structures/#24-list-matching)  
2.5 [Tutorials: data
structures](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-
and-data-structures/data-structures/#25-tutorials-data-structures)

### 3\. [Advanced Data
Structures](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-
and-data-structures/advanced-data-structures/)

3.1 [The Grasshopper data
structure](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-
data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#31-the-grasshopper-data-structure)  
3.1.1 [Introduction](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#311-introduction)  
3.1.2 [Processing data
trees](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-
data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#312-processing-data-trees)  
3.1.3 [Data tree
notation](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-
data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#313-data-tree-notation)  
3.2 [Generating trees](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#32-generating-trees)  
3.3 [Tree matching](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#33-tree-matching)  
3.4 [Traversing trees](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#34-traversing-trees)  
3.5 [Basic tree
operations](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-
and-data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#35-basic-tree-operations)  
3.5.1 [Viewing the tree
structure](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-
data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#351-viewing-the-tree-structure)  
3.5.2 [List operations on
trees](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-
data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#352-list-operations-on-trees)  
3.5.3 [Grafting from lists to a
trees](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-
data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#353-grafting-from-lists-to-a-trees)  
3.5.4 [Flattening from trees to
lists](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-
data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#354-flattening-from-trees-to-lists)  
3.5.5 [Combining data
streams](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-
data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#355-combining-data-streams)  
3.5.6 [Flipping the data
structure](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-
data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#356-flipping-the-data-structure)  
3.5.7 [Simplifying the data
structure](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-and-
data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#357-simplifying-the-data-structure)  
3.6 [Advanced tree
operations](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-
and-data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#36-advanced-tree-operations)  
3.6.1 [Relative items](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#361-relative-items)  
3.6.2 [Split trees](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#362-split-trees)  
3.6.3 [Path mapper](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#363-path-mapper)  
3.7 [Tutorials: advanced data
structures](https://developer.rhino3d.com/guides/grasshopper/gh-algorithms-
and-data-structures/advanced-data-structures/#37-tutorials-advanced-data-
structures)

Edit this page

[ Edit on
GitHub](https://github.com/mcneel/developer.rhino3d.com/edit/master/content/en/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/_index.md) [
History](https://github.com/mcneel/developer.rhino3d.com/commits/master/content/en/guides/grasshopper/gh-
algorithms-and-data-structures/_index.md) [
Admin](https://developer.rhino3d.com/admin)

[Find a Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Shop online](https://www.rhino3d.com/store) or find a
[Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Find a Reseller](https://www.rhino3d.com/sales)

[Privacy Policy](https://www.rhino3d.com/privacy) •
[About](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/about) • [Contact
Us](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/contact) • [
Language](https://www.rhino3d.com/language "Change to a different region or
language")

[Copyright © 1993-2025 Robert McNeel & Associates. All Rights
Reserved.](https://www.rhino3d.com/mcneel/about)

[](https://www.facebook.com/McNeelRhinoceros/)
[](https://twitter.com/bobmcneel) [](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/75313/)
[](https://www.youtube.com/user/RhinoGuide/videos) [](https://vimeo.com/rhino)
[![Blogger
icon](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/blogger.svg)](http://blog.rhino3d.com/)
[![Food4Rhino](https://developer.rhino3d.com/images/f4r_icon_01.svg)](https://www.food4rhino.com)

